URL: https://lifeindenmark.borger.dk/healthcare/health-insurance/healthcare-when-posted-to-denmark

Health insurance when posted to Denmark
If you are posted to work in Denmark, you can remain insured in your home country
Choose your local municipality in order to see information and online services that apply to you
Read more and self-services
Posted to work in Denmark
If you are posted to work temporarily in Denmark for an employer in another EU country, Norway, Iceland, Liechtenstein or Switzerland or by yourself (if you are self-employed), you remain covered by the health insurance scheme of your home country.
In order to have access to public healthcare services during your stay in Denmark you will need a valid European health insurance card and a PD A1 form issued by the health authorities in your home country. The PD A1 form confirms that you remain insured in your home country during your posting in Denmark.
A PD A1 form is issued for a maximum period of 24 months. If your posting in Denmark is longer, you our your employer may request an extension to the validity of your PD A1 form. This is subject to a mutual agreement between the authorities in your home country and Udbetaling Danmark.
The European health insurance card entitles you to receive treatment which becomes necessary during your stay in Denmark, that is, treatment that cannot be postponed until you return to your home country. The benefits must be provided on the same terms and at the same costs as for Danish insured citizens.
You can read more about your right to healthcare in Denmark, when presenting a valid European Health Insurance Card:
Do you need medical treatment during a temporary stay in Denmark
If you move to Denmark during your posting
If you move your residence to Denmark during your posting, you must obtain an entitlement document (PD S1 or S072) issued by the statutory health insurance in your home country. The document must be validated by Udbetaling Danmark.
Upon registration in the Danish Civil Registration System, you will receive a Danish health insurance card, which documents that you are entitled to healthcare services offered within the public Danish healthcare system.
You must bring the card, when you use public healthcare services in Denmark.
The charge for the public healthcare services you receive in Denmark will be forwarded to the health insurance that issued your entitlement document (PD S1 or S072).
Dependent family members
Dependent family members, who are accompanying you to Denmark, will also have full access to the Danish national healthcare system once they have been registered with the Danish Civil Registration System. To register they must present an entitlement document (PD S1 or S072) form issued by the statutory health insurance in your home country.
Dependent family members include a spouse/registered or cohabiting partner and children under the age of 18.
Privileged Persons seconded from another Member State
If you are seconded by a government in another EU country, Norway, Iceland, Liechtenstein or Switzerland to work at a diplomatic mission in Denmark, you remain covered by the social security system in your sending state.
You must present an entitlement document (PD S1 or S072) form issued by your sending state to Udbetaling Danmark. This entitles you to apply for a special health insurance card, which documents that you have the right to medical treatment within the public Danish healthcare system on the same terms as if you were registered as resident in Denmark. The card must be presented at all visits to a GP (general practitioner), specialists, public hospitals etc.
The special health insurance card is issued by Udbetaling Danmark.
You can order the health insurance card by contacting Udbetaling Danmark:
Udbetaling Danmark
Kongens Vænge 8
3400 Hillerød
Denmark
Telephone: +45 70 12 80 81
If you have a Danish MitID you can apply online:
Apply for special health insurance card
Dependent family members
The above mentioned procedure also apply to dependent family members, who are accompanying you to Denmark.
However, dependent family members, who choose to register as resident with the Danish Civil Registration System, will receive a Danish health insurance card. This card gives access to the Danish healthcare system on the same terms as persons provided with a special health insurance card.
The card must be presented when using public healthcare services in Denmark.
Dependent family members include a spouse/registered or cohabiting partner and children under the age of 18.
Legislation
Regulation (EC) No 883/2004 of the European Parliament and the Council of 29 April 2004 on the coordination of social security systems
Regulation (EC) No 987/2009 of the European parliament and of the council of 16 September 2009 laying down the procedure for implementing Regulation (EC) No 883/2004 on the coordination of social security systems
Law on health (in Danish)
Executive order No 278 of 20 March 2017 on decisions of Udbetaling Danmark on applicable legislation, issuance of the European health insurance card, the special health insurance card etc. (in Danish)
Written by the Danish Patient Safety Authority – EU Health Insurance
Last updated: 09 August 2024
A part of
Your Europe
Information services survey