URL: https://lifeindenmark.borger.dk/housing-and-moving/gas--electricity--heating-and-water-supply/electricity-consumption

Electricity consumption
Find information on rights and obligations regarding electricity consumption here
Choose your local municipality in order to see information and online services that apply to you
Read more and self-services
How do I connect my residence to the power grid?
A Danish residence is automatically connected to the electricity grid when residents move in. You will therefore be receiving electricity by default.
In accordance with the Danish implementation of EU regulations, consumers have the right to have electricity delivered to their homes through connections to the local electricity grids. Each local grid has one designated operator. The company designated to manage the particular local level in your area is responsible for connecting your home to the local grid.
If you wish to connect new buildings or other addresses not previously connected to the electricity grid with electricity, it is required that you contact an electrician. The electrician will contact the grid company which will install an electricity meter. This service is subject to a fee.
Which grid company am I connected to?
The organisation Green Power Denmark operates a website called elnet.dk where you can find the grid company operating the distribution network in your local area. You can find the grid company by entering your address in the search bar.
Please note that the information is only available in Danish.
Find your grid company at Green Power Denmark's website elnet.dk (in Danish)
What should I do if I experience a power outage?
The power supply in Denmark is very stable, and if power outages occur, it is often only a minor local interruption. If you experience a power outage, you should check whether it is only in your household, or if the entire property or neighbourhood is affected.
If the outage is affecting the entire neighbourhood, contact your grid company. You can find the contact information at Green Power Denmark’s website. Please note that the information is only available in Danish.
Find contact information at Green Power Denmark’s website
Larger Power Outages
If you experience a larger power outage, you can stay informed at Energinet’s website. Please note that the information is only available in Danish.
Stay informed at Energinet’s website (in Danish)
If the power outage is extensive, and you cannot use a computer, smartphone, or the like, you can stay informed via a battery-powered radio or a car radio.
Information about electricity meters
Information about electricity mean electricity meter registers your electricity consumption. Your grid company owns your electricity meter.
By the end of 2020, all end consumers will have a remotely read electricity meter (smart meter) installed by their grid company. The executive order no. 75 of 25 January 2019 contains functional requirements for remotely read electricity meters, which the grid companies are obliged to set up. With the remotely read electricity meter installed in your home, you do not have to read and settle your actual consumption on a yearly basis, as previously required.
It is often possible to find information about the electricity meters on your grid company’s website. You can find your grid company at Green Power Denmark’s website. Please note that the information is only available in Danish.
Find your grid company at Green Power Denmark's website elnet.dk (in Danish)
My electricity bill
As an electricity consumer your electricity is delivered from an electricity supplier of your own choosing – not your grid company. You receive one combined electricity bill from your electricity supplier containing both the payment for the electricity consumed as well as the transport of the electricity through the grid.
The grid companies are merely responsible for tasks related to operation, maintenance, necessary reconstruction and expansion of the electricity grid, measurement of electricity consumption, and energy savings.
You can find more information about your payment obligations via the links below. Please note that the information is only available in Danish.
Look up your electricity consumption at Spar Energi’s website (in Danish)
Find more information about electricity prices, suppliers and more at Elpris’s website (in Danish)
How do I change my electricity supplier or electricity product?
A Danish residence is automatically connected to the electricity grid when residents move in. You will therefore be receiving electricity by default.
If you wish to switch either electricity supplier or electricity product, it is in your right to do so free of charge.
Before switching, you should look into whether your current agreement is binding or not. There is a maximum of a 6-month binding period for an agreement. You may be prohibited from switching supplier and/or electricity product, or you may have to pay a fee, if you switch while your agreement contains a binding period still in effect.
The website Elpris.dk contains a price comparison portal across all electricity suppliers and electricity products available in Denmark. The Danish Utility Regulator operates at Elpris.dk. Please note that the information is only available in Danish.
The Danish Utility Regulator – Elpris.dk (in Danish)
In order to switch electricity supplier, contact the supplier with whom you wish to sign a new agreement. They will assist you in the process, and send you a new agreement to sign. Your new supplier will inform the previous supplier of your switch. You will receive a final settlement from your previous supplier at least 6 weeks after your request to switch.
Upon contacting the new supplier, please have ready your meter number (aftagenummer) which appears on your electricity bill. Alternatively, you can state your name, address, CPR number, and if applicable, your moving date.
Information about the supply obligation
All electricity suppliers in Denmark have a supply obligation, which is regulated in section 6b (6) of act no. 119 of 6 February 2020, the Electricity Supply Act. As follows, electricity suppliers offering supply of electricity within a certain geographical area (grid area) must supply electricity to any household customers in that area upon the customer’s request.
If an electricity supplier refuses a request for a specific product, you can appeal to the Danish Energy Supplies Complaint Board. Please look at the section 'If I want to complain' for further information or access the complaint board’s website. Please note that the information is only available in Danish.
The complaint board’s website (in Danish)
The obligation to supply applies to all the products of an electricity supplier. They shall therefore be listed on the suppliers' websites or at the website elpris.dk. Please note that the information on the website is only available in Danish.
The Danish Utility Regulator – Elpris.dk (in Danish)
It is your own responsibility to enter into an electricity agreement when moving to a new address. If the residence is a tenancy and no electricity contract applies to the address, the owner of the property is responsible for paying electricity for the property.
If I want to complain
If you want to complain about your electricity bill, or other electricity consumption related matters, you can send a complaint via Digital Post, to the Danish Energy Supplies Complaint Board (Ankenævnet på Energiområdet).
You can use the Danish Energy Supplies Complaint Board’s complaints guide. You can find the complaint guide via the complaint board’s website. Please note that the information is only available in Danish.
Appeals Board for the Energy Sector (in Danish)
Legislation
There are different acts and executive orders that apply to electricity supply and consumption in Denmark. You can find the most important ones below. Please note that all the acts and orders are in Danish.
Act no. 1248 of 24 October 2023, the Electricity Supply Act (in Danish)
Act no. 1284 of 3 November 2023, the Electricity Tax Act (in Danish)
Executive order on individual measurement of electricity, gas, water, heat and cooling (in Danish)
Executive order: Remotely read electricity meters and measurement of electricity at the final consumption (in Danish)
Executive order: The Electricity Labelling Order (in Danish)
Executive order on electricity supply (in Danish)
Please see also
Please note that all the websites are in Danish.
Your rights as an electricity customer (in Danish)
Regulation on the electricity market (in Danish)
Information on the Danish Utility Regulator (in Danish)
The Danish Utility Regulator – Elpris.dk (in Danish)
Look up your electricity consumption at Spar Energi’s website (in Danish)
Written by the Danish Energy Agency
Last updated: 22 April 2025
A part of
Your Europe
Information services survey