URL: https://lifeindenmark.borger.dk/healthcare/health-insurance/special-health-insurance-card

Special health insurance card
The Special health insurance card gives you the right to use the Danish healthcare service
Read more and self-services
What is the special health insurance card?
If you work
in Denmark but live in another EU/EEA country (i.e. EU Member States plus Iceland, Liechtenstein and
Norway), Switzerland or the United Kingdom, you will, as a rule, be entitled to the Special health insurance card and to the blue European health insurance card.
The special
health insurance card gives you the right to use the Danish healthcare service
on the same terms as citizens who live in Denmark.
Special
health insurance cards are issued for a maximum of 2 years.
Who can obtain a special health insurance card?
Special
health insurance cards are only issued to citizens who do not live in Denmark
but are socially insured in the country.
You are
socially insured in Denmark if you:
work
in Denmark and live in another EU/EEA country, Switzerland or the United Kingdom
are
posted by a Danish employer to work in another EU/EAA country or Switzerland
receive
Post-Employment Benefits in Denmark
are a contract agent in an EU institution, who has chosen to be covered by
Danish social security
are employed on a ship, sailing under the Danish flag
are a family member to one of the above-mentioned workers and are socially
secured in your residence country.
You can, however, not obtain the special health insurance card if your family
member works in Denmark but lives in another EU/EEA country.
Documents needed to apply for special health insurance card
When you apply for
the special health insurance card, you might need to have following documents
in hand:
Your employment contract if you work in Denmark.
Documents for your posting if you are posted from or to Denmark.
U2 certificate if you are receiving unemployment benefits.
S1 form (former E106, E109, E120 and E121) if you are posted to work in Denmark.
A1 form which certifies your right to social security benefits when you live and/or work in an EU country other than your own.
If you cannot access some of these documents for one reason or another,
do not hold off on applying. You can submit them later in the process –
digitally or by letter mail.
If you have
NemID you can submit the documents by using Digital Post, which can be accessed
by two secure websites – borger.dk and e-Boks.dk.
If you do
not have NemID you can send the documents to Udbetaling Danmark, Kongens Vænge
8, 3400 Hillerød.
Apply for the special health insurance card
Start
Start Apply for the special health insurance card
Here you can apply for the special health insurance card.
If you are entitled to the card, you will normally receive it in 2 to 3 weeks. If Udbetaling Danmark needs more information, or if you are not entitled to the card, you will receive a letter from Udbetaling Danmark in 3 weeks. The card is free.
If your special health insurance card is lost or damaged, you will have to pay DKK 40 (2025) for the card.
Apply for the special health insurance card
Procedure for renewing the card
You will
receive a renewal notice about 1 month before your card expires if you’re still
entitled.
You
can renew your card in the self-service portal:
Renew your Special health insurance card
Remember to notify Udbetaling Danmark of changes
You have a duty to notify us of
changes if your circumstances change and if these changes have an impact on
your right to keep your Special health insurance card.
For
instance:
if
you move to another country or
if
you no longer work in Denmark.
Case processing time limit
The case processing time limit is 6 weeks.
The case processing time limit period begins the same day Udbetaling
Danmark receives your application.
You can help ensure that your application is processed as soon as possible
by:
Attaching
the required documentation
Ensuring that your information in the Civil Registration System (CPR) is
correct.
If you want to file a complaint
If you
disagree with the decision of the special health insurance card you may file a
complaint to ‘Styrelsen for Patientklager’. They must receive your complaint no later than four
weeks after you received the decision.
As a
general rule, you can only file a complaint digitally. If you cannot file it
digitally, you can contact the Danish Agency for Patient Complaints at tel.: +45 72 33
05 00.
You
cannot appeal a decision of the Formular S1.
File af complaint of the special health insurance card to ‘Styrelsen for Patientklager’ (in Danish)
Legal framework
You can
read more in:
Særligt sundhedskort – Retssikkerhedslovens §§ 10, 11, stk. 1, 11a, stk. 1 -2 og 4-5, § 11b (in Danish)
Udbetaling Danmark-lovens § 5-8, § 12h og 13 (in Danish)
Persondatalovens kapitel 9 og 10 (in Danish)
EF-forordning 883/2004, artikel 76, stk. 4 (PDF) (in Danish)
Bekendtgørelse om valgfri indplacering i sikringsgrupper mv., nr. 1067 af 14. november 2012, § 1 og § 11 stk. 2 (in Danish)
How Udbetaling Danmark processes your personal data
When you contact Udbetaling Danmark, the
administration is obliged as a public authority to register and save your
personal data.
This Policy for protection of personal data
provides information on how Udbetaling Danmark handles your personal data and
your rights in relation to the same.
Read how Udbetaling Danmark processes your
personal data
Auf deutsch:  Antrag auf besondere Krankenversicherungskarte
Start
Start Antrag auf besondere Krankenversicherungskarte
Hier können Sie die besondere Krankenversicherungskarte beantragen.
Written by Udbetaling Danmark, International Sygesikring
Contact Udbetaling Danmark, International Sygesikring
Contact Udbetaling Danmark, International Sygesikring
Last updated: 06 January 2025
A part of
Your Europe
Information services survey