URL: https://lifeindenmark.borger.dk/pension/disability-pension

Disability pension
Your local authority determines whether you are entitled to Disability Pension
Read more and self-services
What is disability pension?
Disability Pension (Førtidspension) may be an option if your work capacity is permanently reduced to such a degree that you are unable to work under ordinary terms or in flexible employment.
You are not entitled to Disability Pension if your loss of work capacity is only temporary or if you are able to improve your work capacity via activation, treatment and such.
To receive Disability Pension, you must also fulfill residential and citizenship requirements.
Your local authority determines whether you are entitled to disability pension
Your local authorities determine whether you are entitled to Disability Pension. To be qualified you must have been enrolled in a resource clarification process before your local authorities can assess your entitlement to Disability Pension. During the assessment, the local authorities will review a range of factors, e.g., your education, your work experience, and your health.
For the purpose of assessing your work capacity, the authorities will plan a rehabilitation plan for you, in collaboration with yourself. The plan describes your resources and opportunities relative to the requirements of the job market.
Udbetaling Danmark pays out your disability pension
It is your local
authority that assesses whether or not you are entitled to disability pension.
If you are entitled and
you are granted disability pension, Udbetaling Danmark, Pension, will calculate
the amount that you can receive and pay it out to your NemKonto.
NemKonto is a normal
bank account, that you assign at your bank. All citizens in Denmark are required
to have a NemKonto when they receive payments from public institutions.
You will receive a letter from Udbetaling Danmark
If you are entitled to disability
pension you will receive a letter from Udbetaling Danmark, Pension.
To start receiving the
amount that you are entitled to, Udbetaling Denmark, Pension, will need some
information from you. The information will be stated in the letter, that you
receive.
When you have received the letter from Udbetaling Danmark you can start the
payment here:
Start payment of disability pension (MitID)
Help to get started
We would like to help you get started with your Disability Pension.
In this video, you will get the information you need to get started, when you have been granted a disability pension by your municipality.
Have you lived and worked abroad?
Special rules may apply to you if you have lived and/or worked in an EU/EEA country, Switzerland, the United Kingdom or a country with which Denmark has signed a convention agreement.
When you apply for a Danish pension, your application automatically applies as an application for a foreign pension from Switzerland or the United Kingdom, as well as the EU/EEA countries and convention countries in which you have earned the right to a pension. Udbetaling Danmark will obtain the relevant information and ensure that that the application is forwarded to the foreign pension authority.
Can I bring my disability pension to the United Kingdom?
If you move to the United Kingdom after December 31st 2020 you can take the basic amount of your disability pension with you if you are a citizen of Denmark, an EU/EEA country or Switzerland and if you have lived in Denmark for at least 10 years or ¼ of the time from the age of 15 till you were you were granted pension. The period you live in Denmark must be continuous and lie up to the time of your retirement.
You can apply for foreign pension even though you do not receive pension from Denmark.
Apply for foreign disability pension
I have not lived in Denmark for three years
If you have not lived in Denmark, Greenland or the Faroe Islands for three years, in the period from the age of 15 to the state pension age, you can still receive a national pension if you:
are a citizen of an EU/EEA country, Switzerland or the United Kingdom and have for a total of at least three years earned the right to a pension from an EU/EEA country, Switzerland or the United Kingdom, of which at least one year is earned in Denmark.
have been working in an EU/EEA country, Switzerland or the United Kingdom
have lived in a country with which Denmark has signed a social security agreement. It appears from the agreement that the requirement of three years' residence does not apply.
are a refugee. The time you have lived in the country you come from or the country where you are considered a refugee is included in the three-year requirement.
Am I entitled to a part of the pension?
If you aren’t entitled to a full state or disability
pension, you might be entitled to part of the pension – also called ‘fractional
pension’. Your fractional pension is calculated based on the time you have
lived in Denmark during the qualifying period, minus any periods in which you
have earned state pension rights from abroad.
Please
note, that you will not receive less in personal allowance, heating allowance
or health allowance, even if you are only entitled to a fractional pension.
How much will I receive in disability pension?
How much you will receive in disability pension depends, among other things, on whether you are single or married/living with a partner.
Your disability pension may be reduced if you or your spouse/cohabitant has an income beyond a certain amount on top of your pensions.
The monthly amount for disability pension in DKK, before tax (2025
)
Single
Married/cohabiting
Disability pension
DKK 21,103
DKK 17,938
Am I allowed to have other incomes in addition to my disability pension?
You and your spouse/common-law
partner can work when you receive a disability pension. However, your
disability pension might be reduced depending on your earned incomes.
Incomes that may have an impact on how much you
receive in disability pension are, for example:
Incomes from personal work, such as
salaries, fees, etc.
Payments from pensions, such as labour
market pensions or fixed-term annuity pensions
Contributions and other ongoing benefits, such
as compensation payments
Incomes from other sources than your
disability pension which are taxable
Capital gains
Income in DKK per year, before taxes (2025)
You are:
Your disability pension will be reduced if your income(s) exceed:
Single
DKK 90,000
Married/living with a partner who is a pensioner
DKK 143,000
Married/living with a partner who is not a pensioner
DKK 143,000
You can make a preliminary calculation of your disability pension based on your information here:
Calculate a state pension or disability pension without MitID (in Danish)
Your pension can be put on hold
Your disability pension (granted after 2003) can be put on hold if you for a longer period of time have had an income above a certain amount.
If you receive disability pension (granted before 2003) and earn more than approx. DKK 169,440 (2025) annually  your disability pension can be put on hold.
It is your local municipality that makes a decision to put your disability pension on hold. If you live abroad it’s Udbetaling Danmark that makes a decision to put your disability pension on hold. The decision is an assessment, where the amount limit is included as an element, for the local municipality or Udbetaling Danmark.
You can also apply for having your disability pension put on hold. If you wish to do so, you must contact your local municipality. You must also contact your local municipality to resume the payment of your disability pension if you are no longer working, or if you believe that you will make less money from a certain point of time. If you live abroad you must contact Udbetaling Danmark.
Power of attorney if you need help or need to help someone else
If you need to help someone else
If you need to help someone else with communicating with Udbetaling Danmark, you must provide a power of attorney. This even applies if you live together, and you just need to talk to Udbetaling Danmark about the other person’s case.
If someone else is going to help you
If you need someone else to help you communicating with Udbetaling Danmark, you must first give that person power of attorney. This even applies if you live together, and the other person just need to talk to Udbetaling Danmark about your case.
How to give a power of attorney
If you want to give a power of attorney, you can do so with MitID or by signing a written power of attorney.
Give or send power of attorney to Udbetaling Danmark, Pension
Case processing time limit
If you are applying for one of the following social benefits from abroad, your application must be handled by Udbetaling Danmark, International Pension.
In the chart below you can see the case processing time limits:
Social benefit
Case processing time limits
Average processing time
State pension
24 weeks
15 weeks
Personal supplement
13 weeks
6 weeks
Disability pension
28 weeks
15 weeks
Senior pension
28 weeks
18 weeks
Dispensation
9 weeks
Danish health care insurance
3 weeks
3 weeks
The case processing time limit period begins the same day Udbetaling Danmark receives your application.
You can help ensure that your application is processed as soon as possible by:
Attaching the required documentation
Ensuring
that your information in the Civil Registration System (CPR) is correct.
If you wish to file a complaint
If you are not satisfied with how Udbetaling Danmark has dealt with your case, you are welcome to contact Udbetaling Danmark, Pension. Sometimes misunderstandings can occur and can easily be resolved with a verbal explanation.
If you disagree with a decision
You may file a complaint about a decision from Udbetaling Danmark if you disagree with it. A decision can for example be classified as the amount you receive in pension – or any other decision that Udbetaling Denmark makes in your case. You will always receive a letter from Udbetaling Denmark, in which the decision will be stated along with a complaint guide.
Udbetaling Danmark must receive your complaint no later than four weeks after your receipt of the decision. They will then assess the matter again.
If Udbetaling Danmark reject your complaint, they will forward it to the National Social Appeals Board. The National Social Appeals Board is an independent state institution and the highest complaint board for Udbetaling Danmark amongst others.
Complaints about other matters
Udbetaling Danmark will also consider complaints received about other matters in your case and investigate whether there is anything that should have been done differently. You will always receive an answer to your complaint.
How to file a complaint
You can file a complaint by calling Udbetaling Danmark or filling in the form below.
File a complaint about Pension
You can also choose to send your complaint to Udbetaling Danmark, Pension, preferably marked ‘Klage over Pension’.
Contact Udbetaling Danmark, Pension
Legal framework
You can read more in
Retssikkerhedsloven (in Danish
Udbetaling Danmark-loven (in Danish)
Lov om Social Pension (in Danish)
Gammelførtidspensionsloven (in Danish)
Lov om delpension (in Danish)
Lov om fleksydelse (in Danish)
Databeskyttelsesforordningen (in Danish)
Databeskyttelsesloven (in Danish)
Written by Udbetaling Danmark
Contact Udbetaling Danmark, Pension
Contact Udbetaling Danmark, Pension
Last updated: 03 April 2025
A part of
Your Europe
Information services survey