URL: https://lifeindenmark.borger.dk/school-and-education/student-finance/subsidies-for-internships-traineeships-abroad

Subsidies for internships and traineeships abroad
When you start a vocational training programme, AUB will help you pay some of your expenses
Read more and self-services
Application form
You must fill out and send an application form to AUB every time you wish to apply for a subsidy.
When applying for rent subsidies, you must use the separate form for rent subsidies.
The application must be sent to AUB
no later than 4 months after
your expenses have been paid.
Application for financial support for an internship/traineeship abroad (in Danish – PDF – new window)
Rent subsidies while taking an internship/traineeship abroad (in Danish – PDF – new window)
Provider declaration for subsidies for potential additional costs for room and board (when having a double household budget) (in Danish – PDF – new window)
Pre-approval for application for internship/traineeship abroad (in Danish – PDF – new window)
Pre-approval for getting the internship/traineeship abroad accepted (in Danish – PDF – new window)
Apply for supplements for expenses in connection with traineeships (MitID)
AUB offers supplements for:
apprentices
and trainees who apply/begin working at a workplace within the vocational
training programmes.
apprentices
and trainees who need to participate in school-based training.
Please note that the subsidy does not
apply to apprenticeships or traineeships in Greenland or the Faeroe Islands.
The application must be sent
to AUB no later than 2 months after the travel and/or move has taken place.
Apply for supplements for expenses in connection with traineeships (non-Danish eID)
Start
Start Apply for supplements for expenses in connection with a traineeship
AUB offers supplements for:
apprentices
and trainees who apply/begin working at a workplace within the vocational
training programmes.
apprentices
and trainees who need to participate in school-based training.
Please note that the subsidy does not
apply to apprenticeships or traineeships in Greenland or the Faeroe Islands.
The application must be sent
to AUB no later than 2 months after the travel and/or move has taken place.
If you are a citizen in an EU/EEA country, you can use your national eID. Your national eID has to be connected to your Danish Civil Registration Number (CPR number) before you can log in.
Connect your non-Danish eID to your Danish Civil Registration Number
What is a CPR number?
Have you had additional costs due to covid-19?
You can apply for subsidies if you have had additional
costs in connection with taking an internship/traineeship abroad (OPU).
FAQ about internship/traineeships abroad (in Danish – new window)
Check list
When you are taking an internship/traineeship abroad,
there is a lot to keep track of.
You can print
out this check list - it may help you maintain an overview of the things that
you need to remember before, during and after your internship/traineeship.
The application must be sent to AUB
no later than 4 months after
your expenses have been paid.
Check list (in Danish – PDF – new window)
Which of my expenses can AUB cover?
AUB gives subsidies
to several of your expenses if you are taking an internship/traineeship abroad.
For example, you can get subsidies for travel expenses, rent and compensation
for salary during education.
The travel expenses for an
interview before the basic course is completed
AUB covers your
travel expenses for interviews before your basic course is
completed if the school or the professional committee assesses that it is likely that you will
complete/pass your basic
course.
You must send an application with the attached invitation to the interview and
the pre-approval from the school or the professional committee before the trip is completed. Then
you will receive an endorsement from AUB stating that we have approved the trip.
When you have completed the interview abroad, you must send
documentation for your travel expenses.
Travel expenses for interviews
AUB covers your
travel expenses for interviews related to internships/traineeships. You can at
most get your expenses for three trips to interviews covered. Please note that
you can only get a subsidy for the trip if the trip is exclusively for the
purpose of applying for an internship/traineeship abroad.
You must send an application with a pre-approval from your school
attached and also an invitation/confirmation of the interview from the employer
abroad plus documentation for your travel expenses.
Expenses in connection with
your internship/traineeship
If you have begun an internship/traineeship abroad, AUB will give subsidies
for:
trips related to the start and finish of the internship/traineeship
expenses for visas, vaccinations, travel insurance
moving in connection with the start and finish of the work place or
internship
travel when staying at a school in Denmark
transport during stays at schools
rent for the home abroad - AUB covers half, though at most DKK 2,500 per
month
subsidy - AUB
covers a maximum of DKK 4,000
fee for realtors - AUB covers half, though at most DKK 2,000
salary compensation during compulsory schooling in Denmark
room and board in connection with school stays in Denmark.
The check list shows you what documentation you need to send to us.
Check list (in Danish – PDF – new window)
How much can I get in subsidies from AUB?
If you have begun your internship/traineeship before
22 November 2015, you can get at most DKK 32,000 in subsidies per calendar
year.
If you have
begun your internship/traineeship on 22 November 2015 or after, you can get at
most DKK 32,000 in subsidies from AUB for a 12-month period. The period begins
on the day where you have paid the first expense that you are entitled to get
covered.
Salary
compensation during compulsory schooling in Denmark are not included in the DKK
32,000.
What can I get covered if I need to return to Denmark for a school stay?
You can be paid salary compensation if your employer
abroad pays you less in salary or perhaps does not pay any salary at all while
you are at a school stay.
You can be paid
salary compensation in connection with writing days and trade tests. You can get up to 5 days of salary
compensation.
When applying
for salary compensation during your school stay, you must remember to contact
the Danish Tax Agency
to activate your tax card
before we pay you.
You can also
apply for travel assistance to/from school stays and subsidies for
transportation between your Danish residence and the school if you have at
least 10 km to travel to school each way.
When at a school
stay in Denmark and living at the school home, you can get your costs for room and board covered.
Apply for salary
compensation, travel assistance and, if relevant, transport and room and board
when staying at a school home:
Application for financial support for an internship/traineeship abroad (in Danish – PDF – new window)
What do I need to do if I for example get sick or there is a death in my immediate family?
You must notify AUB of why you are applying for an
additional trip or returning home before schedule. Write a justification when
applying for travel and/or moving assistance.
Contact Arbejdsgivernes Uddannelsesbidrag (AUB)
Which countries can I travel to when taking an internship or traineeship abroad?
Generally speaking, you can take an
internship/traineeship anywhere in the world.
However, please
note that AUB will not pay subsidies for internships/traineeships in countries
or geographical areas where there are wars or other circumstances that put you
at risk. We use the Danish Ministry of Foreign Affair’s travel recommendations
when making an assessment.
AUB can refuse to pay a
subsidy for the period where the Danish Ministry of Foreign Affairs has
prepared a travel warning guide for a country or a geographical area.
AUB reports to the Danish Tax Agency
AUB is obliged to report all payments to the Danish
Tax Agency. See how which payments are reported:
A-income
:
Salary compensation during school stays.
B-income
:
Moving help and travel assistance when looking for internships/traineeships.
Expenses for vaccinations, visas and travel insurance.
Tax free
: Travel
assistance during the internship/traineeship, travel during school stays in
Denmark, subsidy for having a double household budget, deposits and realtor
fees in addition to room and board in Denmark when staying at a school.
How do I contact AUB?
You are also welcome to contact AUB if you have
questions and cannot find the answers here.
Contact Arbejdsgivernes Uddannelsesbidrag (AUB)
If you want to file a complaint
Do
you disagree on a decision from AUB
?
If you disagree
with a decision that has been made by AUB or feel that the information that AUB
has based its decision on is incomplete or incorrect, you are welcome to
contact AUB.
Do
you want to file a complaint over a decision
?
If you wish to
file a complaint over a decision that AUB has made, you must send a complaint
to AUB with the text 'Klage til Ankenævnet for ATP'. We must receive your
complaint no later than 4 weeks after your receipt of the decision.
AUB will
evaluate your complaint and send it to the ATP Board of Appeal if we do not
agree with your complaint.
ATP's
customer ambassador
If you have
suggestions for improvement or you are not completely satisfied, please contact
ATP’s customer ambassador. For example, this might be if you are not happy with
the service you received or you feel that there are some things ATP can improve
upon.
Read about how
you can contact the customer ambassador:
ATP's customer ambassador
Read more
Here you can read more about subsidies for
internships/traineeships in Denmark:
Subsidies for internships/traineeships in Denmark (in Danish)
Legislation
Here you can read more about the legislation for
subsidies in the event of internships/traineeships abroad:
Danish Consolidated Act on the Employers’ Reimbursement System (in Danish – new window)
Executive Order on the payment of financial    support for apprenticeship abroad, etc. from the Employers’ Reimbursement    System (in Danish – new window)
Written by AUB – Arbejdsgivernes Uddannelsesbidrag
Last updated: 13 December 2023