URL: https://lifeindenmark.borger.dk/working/work-rights/bankruptcy-and-cessation-of-operations/payment-in-the-event-of-bankruptcy/flexi-jobs--maternity-paternity-leave-and-foreign-workers-in-the-event-of-bankruptcy

Flexi-jobs, maternity/paternity leave, foreign workers or living abroad in the event of bankruptcy, cessation of operations and restructuring
Read more and self-services
Are you employed in a flexi-job?
Salary
If you have been employed in a flexi-job, you can get paid salary, etc. from LG. You will be paid the salary that you would normally have gotten from your employer.
Salary during the termination period
Find out whether you are entitled to a termination period in your employment contract or via your collective agreement.
Are you on maternity/paternity leave?
If you are on maternity/paternity leave and entitled to paid leave, LG can pay you the salary, etc. that your employer should have paid.
When you report a claim to LG, remember to provide information on:
the child’s date of birth
paid out maternity/paternity benefits (copy of payments)
when your maternity/paternity leave stops
documentation for you being entitled to paid leave (your employment contract, collective agreement, etc.).
Are you working for a foreign employer?
If you are working in Denmark for a foreign employer who is declared bankrupt or under restructuring, LG can pay your salary, etc. for your work.
LG will pay if your employer:
is domiciled in an EEA country
has activities in at least two EEA countries
is under some form of insolvency treatment in the home country (as defined in Directive 2008/94/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 October 2008)
and if you:
have usually performed your work in Denmark
have not been posted to Denmark
are not residing in Denmark illegally.
Remember to provide documentation
Besides the documentation that LG normally needs, you must also send:
documentation for the employer’s identity and home country
statement of which periods you have worked in Denmark
if relevant, a Danish residency permit
if relevant, a Danish work permit
if relevant, an agreement about being posted abroad.
If you have a disability, you may have difficulty reading the document below. You are welcome to contact Lønmodtagernes Garantifond.
List of addresses for guarantee schemes in EEA countries (PDF – in Danish)
Are you working for a Danish employer but live abroad?
If you work for a Danish employer while living abroad, there may be situations where LG can pay the salary for your work.
Working outside an EU/EEA country
If you have worked outside the EU/EEA and received a salary from a Danish employer, LG can process your claim for the payment of missing salary from your former employer.
Temporary work outside Denmark
If you are posted abroad by your Danish employer and have temporarily worked outside Denmark, LG can process your claim for the payment of missing salary.
Working within an EU/EEA country
If you have worked in an EU/EEA country, the employer must have business activities in at least two countries within the EU/EEA. There may be cases where you are not covered by LG but are instead covered by the guarantee scheme in the country where the work was performed.
If you have a disability, you may have difficulty reading the document below. You are welcome to contact Lønmodtagernes Garantifond.
List of addresses for guarantee schemes in EEA countries (PDF – in Danish)
Remember to provide documentation
Besides the documentation that LG normally needs, you must also send:
A statement of the periods you have worked in an EU/EEA country and, if relevant, Denmark
Description of your work tasks
How your work was carried out (e.g. customer visits, working from home, etc.)
Please be aware that the case processing time may be longer as contacting the other country’s guarantee scheme may be required.
If you disagree or want to complain
The Employees' Guarantee Fund (LG) ensures that employees receive wages etc. when their employer is declared bankrupt or ceases operations. LG can also help the employer to pay wages to employees working for the company, while it is subject to financial reconstruction.
If you do not agree with LG's decision
The legislation to which LG is subject falls within the Danish Ministry of Employment, but you cannot complain about the decision to the Ministry. If you do not agree with LG's decision, you are welcome to contact us and possibly send further documentation supporting your claim. LG will review your case and send you a new decision.
If you still do not believe that our decision is correct, you will have to initiate legal proceedings against LG at the courts. LG has no appeals board, and therefore the case can only continue at the courts. In this case, you must contact the court in Hillerød.
Contact the customer ambassador
If you are dissatisfied with the service you received from LG, you can contact ATP's customer ambassador:
ATP's customer ambassador
Legislation
View laws and executive orders
Written by Lønmodtagernes Garantifond (LG)