URL: https://lifeindenmark.borger.dk/pension/seniorpension/personal-data

Personal data
Read more and self-services
Policy for protection of personal data
When you contact Seniorpension, the administration is
obliged as a public authority to register and save your personal data.
This Policy for protection of personal data provides
information on how Senior Pension handles your personal data and your rights in
relation to the same.
First time contacting Seniorpension
First time you contact Seniorpension, data such as
your name and phone number will be registered.
What data does Seniorpension process?
When you apply for or receive Senior Pension, you
automatically consent to Seniorpension processing some information about you.
This information is called personal data.
Seniorpension
processes the data included in your application and your case. This may include
information about:
Social security number
Citizenship, refugee status and residence
Employment and income
Health
This is information that Seniorpension retrieves or
receives from you, the municipality, Udbetaling Danmark, Danish Custom and Tax Administration,
ATP, the Region’s clinical function, hospitals, doctors and
information from registers such as the Civil Registration System (CPR), the Central
Business Register (CVR), etc.
How does Seniorpension process your personal data?
We process your data based on the Danish Act on Senior
Pension and other acts.
When we process
your case, we may disclose data about you to other public authorities, foreign
authorities and private individuals who, by law, are entitled to receive the
data, or with whom we cooperate.
Seniorpension
saves your information during the processing of your case and, in most cases,
erases it five years from the year in which your case closed.
The information is saved following the closing of the case due to the
law of Danish Limitation Act and the Danish Archiving Act, etc.
When you contact
Seniorpension by phone, you might be asked for permission to record the
conversation. The recording will only be used for training purposes and
customer experience improvement. The conversation will only be recorded if you
give us your permission to do so. All recorded conversations will be deleted
after two months. You can always contact Seniorpension, if you wish to have the
recording deleted sooner.
What are your rights?
You can always withdraw your consent. You can do
it by contacting Seniorpension.
If you withdraw your consent, your
application may get rejected or you might no longer be entitled to
receive the relevant benefit.
You may object
to Seniorpension processing personal data about you.
You can always
get a copy of the information Seniorpension processes about you. You can also
request:
to have your personal data corrected or
erased
to have your information sent to you or
someone else that
Seniorpension suspends the processing
of your information.
Finally, you may
object to Seniorpension making automated decisions. If you have any questions
as to how Seniorpension processes your personal data, please contact the Data
Protection Officer.
Contact the Data
Protection Officer (DPO)
If you disagree
with the way in which Seniorpension processes your personal data, you may
submit a complaint to the Danish Data Protection Agency.
Please note that
the Danish Data Protection Agency is only a complaints body in respect of the
processing of your personal data and not the handling of your benefits case. If
you disagree with how Seniorpension is handling your benefits case, please
contact Seniorpension.
Legal framework
You can read
more in:
Danish Legal Protection Act § 10, § 11, stk. 1, § 11 a, stk. 1-5, § 11 b, § 12,
nr. 1 og 3
Lov om seniorpensionsenheden
Lov om social pension
Databeskyttelsesforordningen og databeskyttelsesloven