URL: https://lifeindenmark.borger.dk/pension/atp-livslang-pension/how-atp-processes-your-personal-data

How ATP processes your personal data
Read more and self-services
Introduction
Here you can read which data ATP Livslang Pension processes,
how the data is processed and what rights you have when we process cases and
inquiries concerning: .
ATP Livslang Pension (ATP)
Obligatorisk Pensionsordning
(OP)
Supplerende
Arbejdsmarkedspension (SUPP).
ATP Livslang Pension is responsible for processing the
personal data that we have about you.
Why is ATP Livslang Pension (Lifelong Pension) processes your personal data?
We process your personal
data for the following purposes:
To be able to
decide whether ATP Livslang Pension can be paid
To be able to
decide whether a lump sum from ATP Livslang Pension can be paid in case of
death
To collect ATP
contributions.
To train our
employees and improve the customer service (if you call us and accept that we
can record the conversation).
What data do we process?
We only collect relevant information about you to be able to
process your case.
We collect the following types of personal data about you:
Common personal data
We receive civil registration numbers and other basic
data from the Danish Civil Register.
We receive information about income, etc. from the
Danish Tax Agency.
We receive information about account numbers/NemKonto
and any registrations/exemptions related to receiving Digital Post from the
Danish Agency for Digitization.
We receive ATP, OP and SUPP contributions from your employer,
public authorities and unemployment insurance funds.
We receive information about civil status, family
relationships, contact details and tax identification number (TIN) from foreign and Danish authorities.
Information submitted by you or your representative.
How do we process your personal data?
We process your personal
data on the basis of:
The Danish Act on the Danish Labour Market Supplementary Pension Scheme (in Danish)
The General Data Protection Regulation for EU
The Danish Data Protection Act (in Danish)
We can obtain and coordinate data for case processing and
for checking payments, etc. This can be done with the help from Udbetaling
Danmark on the basis of special provisions in the Danish Udbetaling Danmark Act
and established guidelines, including those for erasure of data.
We may pass on information about you to other public authorities that
according to the law are entitled to receive the information or authorities ATP
Livslang Pension works together with. E.g., the Danish Tax Agency, Udbetaling
Danmark, foreign authorities or banks.
In the process of carrying out actuarial and statistical
calculations a number of parameters are used which are based directly on
personal data. Such parameters include mortality rates, marriage/cohabitant
rates or estimate of the number of children per member. The calculations
include, for example, the price for an ATP pension, or estimates of how much
money ATP needs to set aside to ensure that all member pensions can be met in
full. The results of the calculation are aggregated and anonymised so that
personal information such as cpr numbers cannot be seen by end users.
Identifying information about employers,
including industry information, is stored in a database for the purposes of
documenting employment for employees.
Who do we pass on your personal data to?
We can pass on information
about you to others who are entitled to receive the information, such as
authorities, institutions and relevant private companies.
We pass on the following types of personal data about you:
Common personal data
We pass on information about reported contributions,
retained labour market contributions, tax identification number (TIN), paid pensions and death benefit plus retained taxes and charges.
We
pass on information to municipalities for the purposes of updating the Civil
Registration System (CPR).
We
pass on information to foreign authorities about reported contributions, payments,
and identity data for the member and, if relevant, those entitled to receiving
death benefits.
We
pass on information to Danish authorities about reported contributions and
periods for the contributions plus additional information that the authorities
need to process cases.
We
pass on information to authorities and private actors if we are obliged in accordance with other legislation.
In some cases, we have to pass on your case to the Danish
National Archives.
Transfer of personal data to non-EU/EEA countries
If you have previously lived or worked in a non-EU/EEA country or if you
are currently or at a later date resident in or working in a non-EU/EEA
country, we may need to transfer information about you to relevant authorities
in that country so that they can process your case.
Similarly, it may also be
necessary to obtain information about you or your spouse/common-law partner
plus your children, if relevant, in connection with payments.
How long do we store your personal data?
We store your information while processing your case and, as a rule,
delete them 10 years after your death. The information can be stored for longer
periods after the case has been concluded pursuant to the provisions in the
Danish Limitation Act, the Danish Bookkeeping Act, and the Danish Archiving
Act.
If you have accepted that ATP Livslang Pension
can record a conversation, it is deleted after two months. You can always have
the conversation deleted earlier by contacting ATP Livslang Pension.
Automated individual decisions
We may make decisions that
are solely based on automated data processing. The automated decisions are made
by us obtaining information from public registers that is combined
automatically with information in your case and which together determines
whether you are entitled to pension payments and payment in case of death.
How do we process the information you share via ATP's self-service?
When you share your ATP information with a company or a public authority via ATP's self-service, ATP follows fixed procedures to ensure the correct handling and storage of your data.
Sharing ATP information via ATP's self-service
ATP provides a self-service solution on borger.dk, where you can share your ATP information with a company or a public authority.
You choose the company or a public authority you want to share your ATP information with by entering their CVR number and following the instructions provided in the self-service on borger.dk. The company or the public authority can then retrieve your ATP information. They have 2 months to retrieve your information before the sharing ends.
Note:
ATP only provides the self-service and assumes no responsibility for how companies or public authorities use the information you share with them. ATP does not guarantee the accuracy or completeness of the information shared via the self-service. It is your responsibility to check the information before sharing it.
Information you can share via ATP's self-service
When you share your ATP information via ATP's self-service, you give them permission to see:
When and how much you and your employers have paid into your ATP Livslang Pension.
When and how much you and other entities such as the municipality, the state, or your unemployment insurance fund have paid into your ATP Livslang Pension.
You choose the time period the information should cover – for example, the last 1 or 3 years.
ATP information provides insight into your employment history:
ATP is a mandatory pension scheme where you, your employer, the municipality, the state, or your unemployment insurance fund must continuously pay into as long as certain conditions are met. When you share information about your payments to ATP Livslang Pension, you give the recipient insight into your employment history.
Storage period for shared information
ATP stores the shared information for a limited period of time, depending on whether the company or the public authority has retrieved the information:
If they have retrieved your information: ATP stores it for 1 year.
If they have not retrieved your information: ATP stores it for 3 months.
After these periods, ATP deletes the shared information from ATP's systems.
Note that if the company or the public authority has already retrieved the information, they may still have access to it in their own systems even after the storage period has expired. Therefore, you need to contact them if you want them to delete your information.
You can always see your own ATP information
Even though ATP deletes the information you have shared, the information will still be available to you in ATP's self-service. This means that you can always see information about payments to your ATP Livslang Pension and choose to share the information again.
You can stop sharing your ATP information
If you regret sharing your ATP information with a company or a public authority, you can choose to stop sharing via ATP's self-service. If the company or the public authority has already retrieved your information before you stop sharing, they may still have access to your information in their own systems. Therefore, you need to contact them if you want them to delete your information.
What are your rights?
You can receive a copy of the data we process about you
(insight). You can complain about us processing your personal data (objection).
You may also request:
to have your personal data corrected or erased
to have the data sent to you or another party (data portability)
that we suspend the processing of your data·
And finally, you can object to us making automated
decisions.
If you ask to have your personal data erased, we may not be
able to comply with your request.
There may be conditions or limitations to the rights
mentioned above. Therefore, it is not guaranteed that, for example, you have
the right to have your personal data deleted in a specific context - this will
depend on the specific circumstances in connection with the data processing.
Among other things, this may be due to your personal data being used in a case
involving a payment to a third party or for legal compliance reasons.
If you have parental custody or parental
responsibility for a child under the age of 18 and information about the child is included in
the case, the child also has these rights.
If you have questions
If you have questions
If you have any questions concerning
your case or our processing of your personal data or if you want to use your
rights, for example, to get access to or correct your personal data, you can
contact ATP Livslang Pension.
You can do so by calling (+45) 70 12 80 00 or writing to ATP
Livslang Pension, Kongens Vænge 8, DK-3400 Hillerød. If you are writing about
the processing of personal data, then please write “Personal data” in the
title.
Are you dissatisfied with the
processing of your personal data
You can contact the Data Protection Officer if you think
That
you have not received a satisfactory response to your request for access to
your personal data
That
ATP Livslang Pension has not respected your rights.
Contact the Data Protection Officer via
borger.dk/atp-dpo-kontakt or call (+45) 70 11 12 13.
If you disagree with the way in which we process your
personal data, you can also submit a complaint to the Danish Data Protection
Agency.
Please note that the Danish Data Protection Agency is only a
board of appeal regarding ATP Livslang Pension’s processing of personal data
and not the handling of your case.
If you disagree with our processing of your case, you must
contact ATP Livslang Pension.
Data Controller
ATP Livslang Pension
Konges Vænge 8,
DK-3400 Hillerød
CVR no. 43405810
·
Legal framework
Lov om Arbejdsmarkedets Tillægspension
Regulation no. 883/2004 - coordination of social
insurance schemes
Regulation no. 987/2009 - the implementation
regulation
Article 6(1)(e) of Databeskyttelsesforordningen
(common personal data)
Section
11(1) of Databeskyttelsesloven (civil registration no.)
Article
45(1) of Databeskyttelsesforordningen (transfers to safe non-EU/EEA countries)
article
46(2)(a) of Databeskyttelsesforordningen (transfers to an unsafe non-EU/EEA
country)
Article
49(1)(e) of Databeskyttelsesforordningen (transfers take place for legal
compliance reasons)
You can find the legal basis at:
www.retsinformation.dk
www.eur-lex.eu
Written by ATP Livslang Pension