URL: https://lifeindenmark.borger.dk/working/holiday-allowance-ny/frozen-holiday-funds---loenmodtagernes-feriemidler/how-loenmodtagernes-feriemidler-processes-your-personal-data

How Lønmodtagernes Feriemidler processes your personal data
Read more and self-services
Introduction
Here you can learn about
what data Lønmodtagernes Feriemidler processes, how the data is processed and
what rights you have when we process cases and inquiries concerning:
Reporting of outstanding holiday funds
Account statements and account indexation
Payment of holiday funds
Repayment of holiday funds that the recipient was not entitled to
Registration of guardianships or powers of attorney
Lønmodtagernes Feriemidler is responsible for the
processing of the personal data that we have about you.
The data controller for
Lønmodtagernes Feriemidler is LD Fonde, central business registration number
61552812.
Why Lønmodtagernes Feriemidler processes your personal data
We process your personal data for the following
purposes:
To ensure that you get your outstanding holiday funds registered as
they are reported by your employer(s).
That the amounts are adjusted during the period the holiday funds
are placed with the fund.
That you get paid your holiday funds automatically or when applying
for them.
That you pay back holiday funds that you received without being
entitled to.
To verify information in connection with reporting, application,
payment or when contacting the fund.
To train our employees and improve the customer experience (if you
call us and accept that we can record the conversation).
To test our systems in connection with development, optimisation of
operations and, if relevant, fixing errors.
What data do we process?
We only collect information about you that we need to
process your case.
We collect the following types of personal data about
you:
Common personal data
We receive civil registration numbers and other basic data from the
Danish Civil Register.
We receive information about income, etc. from the Danish Tax
Agency.
We receive information about account numbers/NemKonto from the Agency for Digital Government.
We receive information about your employment conditions and accrued
holiday funds from your employer.
From you we receive information about your TIN (tax identification number)
Sensitive personal data
From yourself we can retrieve health information
that has an impact on dispensation from applications sent in too late
about an early payment or for benefits that you have been granted in
connection with the application for a payment in the event of early retirement.
How do we process your data?
We process your personal data on the basis of the Act concerning the amendment of the
Danish Act on the Processing and Administration of Outstanding Holiday Pay (Lov
om forvaltning og administration af tilgodehavende feriemidler), Act no. 58 of
30/01/2018 with amendments.
We can
obtain and coordinate data for case processing and for checking payments, etc.
This can be done with the help of Udbetaling Danmark – Public Benefits
Administration on the basis of special provisions in the Danish Udbetaling
Danmark Act and established guidelines, including those for erasure of data.
We can
pass on information about you to other public authorities such as the Danish
Tax Agency, Lønmodtagernes Garantifond, the Danish Debt Collection Agency,
Udbetaling Danmark or financial institutions which are legally entitled to
receive this information or to parties that Lønmodtagernes Feriemidler
collaborates with. In special cases, we will pass on your personal data to
countries outside of the EU/EEA, though only if your employer is domiciled
outside of the EU/EEA.
For how long do we store your personal data?
We store your information
during the processing of your case and delete them at the earliest three years
after the holiday funds have been disbursed or, if relevant, repaid and the
holiday funds from your employer have been fully contributed to the fund,
Lønmodtagernes Garantifond or the Danish Debt Collection Agency. The information is stored after the case has been closed due to rules in
the Danish Limitation Act, the Danish Bookkeeping Act and the Danish Archiving
Act.
If you have consented to Lønmodtagernes Garantifond
recording a conversation, we will delete this conversation after two months.
You can always have the conversation deleted earlier by contacting
Lønmodtagernes Garantifond.
Automated individual decisions
We
can make decisions that are solely based on automated processing. The automated
decisions are made by us retrieving information from public registries that are
then compared by a computer programme with information in your case and this
together determines whether you are entitled to a payment, if you have received
more than you were entitled to or if your case should be transferred to the
Danish Debt Collection Agency or be subject to a control.
What are your rights?
You can receive a copy of the data we process about
you (insight).
You can complain about us processing your personal
data (objection).
You may also request:
to have your personal data rectified or erased
to have the data sent to you or someone else (data portability)
that we suspend the processing of your data.
And finally, you can object to us making automated
decisions.
If you ask to have your personal data erased, we may
not be able to comply with your request.
There may be conditions or limitations to the rights
mentioned above. It is therefore not guaranteed that, for example, you have the
right to have your personal data deleted in a specific context – this will
depend on the specific circumstances in connection with the data processing.
Among other things, this may be due to your personal data being used in a case
involving a payment to a third party or for legal compliance reasons.
If you have questions
Do you have questions about your case?
If you have questions concerning your case, please contact Lønmodtagernes Feriemidler.
Contact Lønmodtagernes Feriemidler
Do you have any questions about your personal data?
If you have any questions concerning our processing of
your personal data or if you want to exercise your rights to, for example, get
access to or erase your personal data, you can contact Lønmodtagernes Feriemidler.
Contact Lønmodtagernes Feriemidler
If you write us, please write “Personal data”
in the subject line.
Are you dissatisfied
with the processing of your personal data?
You can contact the Data
Protection Officer, if you think
that you have not received a satisfactory response to
your request for access to your personal data
that Lønmodtagernes Feriemidler has violated your
rights.
LD Fonde’s data protection
officer is Compliance Team ApS.
Contact Data Protection Officer for LD Fonde (in Danish)
If you disagree with the way
in which we process your personal data, you can also submit a complaint to the
Danish Data Protection Agency.
Please note that the Danish
Data Protection Agency is only a complaints body for Lønmodtagernes
Feriemidler’s processing of your personal data – it does not handle complaints
about the processing of your case itself.
If you disagree with how we
have processed your case, you must contact Lønmodtagernes Feriemidler.
Data controller
The
data controller for Lønmodtagernes Feriemidler is LD Fonde, central business
registration number 61552812.
Legislation
Legal framework
Article
6(1)(e) of the General Data Protection Regulation (common personal data)
Article
9(2)(f)(1) of the General Data Protection Regulation (sensitive personal data)
Article 45(1) of
the General Data Protection Regulation (transfers to safe non-EU/EEA countries)
Article 46(2)(a)
of the General Data Protection Regulation (transfers to an unsafe non-EU/EEA
country)
Article 49(1)(e)
of the General Data Protection Regulation (transfers take place for legal
compliance reasons)
Act concerning the amendment of the Danish Act on the
Processing and Administration of Outstanding Holiday Pay (Lov om forvaltning og
administration af tilgodehavende feriemidler), Act no. 58 of 30/01/2018 with
amendments.
You can find the legal basis at
Retsinformation (in Danish)
EUR-Lex – European Union law
Acts
The General Data Protection Regulation
The Danish Data Protection Act
Lov om forvaltning og administration af tilgodehavende feriemidler (in Danish)
Seneste ændring af Lov om forvaltning og administration af tilgodehavende feriemidler vedrørende udbetalingsrunden i 2021(in Danish)
Loven er ændret ved § 1 i Lov om ændring af lov om forvaltning og administration af tilgodehavende feriemidler vedrørende udbetalingsrunden i 2020 (in Danish)
Change in the Act by § 3 in Lov om forvaltning og administration af tilgodehavende feriemidler (in Danish)
Change in the Act by §22 in Lov om social pension mv. (in Danish)
Executive orders
Bekendtgørelse om forvaltning og administration af tilgodehavende feriemidler (in Danish)
Bekendtgørelse om førtidig udbetaling af feriemidler ved en ansøgningsrunde i 2021 (in Danish)
Bekendtgørelse om førtidig udbetaling af feriemidler ved en ansøgningsrunde i 2020 (in Danish)
Bekendtgørelse om fondsferiedage (in Danish)
Bekendtgørelse om indeksering af tilgodehavende feriemidler hos arbejdsgivere i perioden 1. september 2020 til 31. maj 2021 (in Danish)
Written by Lønmodtagernes Feriemidler