URL: https://lifeindenmark.borger.dk/working/holiday-allowance-ny/holiday-allowance/Holiday-allowance-if-you-leave-Denmark

Holiday allowance if you leave Denmark
Read more and self-services
How to receive your holiday allowance
If you are no longer registered in the Civil Registration System (CPR), no longer work for a Danish employer and do not receive public benefits from Denmark, you can have your holiday allowance, in respect of previous and current qualifying years, disbursed at once.
If it is registered that you have a foreign address, you will receive a letter where we ask you to confirm that you have left Denmark. If you are still employed in Denmark, you have to contact us. When you are working in Denmark, you have to take holiday in order to receive your holiday allowance. If you do not reply, your holiday allowance will automatically be paid out.
Disbursement is handled by your employer or the party disbursing holiday allowance on behalf of your employer.
You can see who is in charge of the disbursement on your overview in the self-service page:
Claim your holiday allowance
Please note
that you must update your address in the Civil Registration System (CPR). Otherwise, you will not be able to receive letters regarding your holiday allowance.
FeriepengeInfo specifically
Disbursement is handled by your employer or the party disbursing holiday allowance on behalf of your employer.
Four weeks after you have received the letter, Feriepengeinfo will ask the one who is to disburse your holiday allowance to pay out your holiday allowance. You have to make sure that the one who is to pay your holiday allowance, has your recent bank information.
If you have stopped working in Denmark more than 6 months ago, you have to take you holiday in order to receive your holiday allowance.
FerieKonto specifically
FerieKonto will automatically pay your holiday allowance to your NemKonto approx. 21 working days after
receipt of notice from the Civil Registration Office that you have left Denmark. You can also choose to have your holiday allowance transferred to a foreign account.
Change account
Please note that you can only have your money paid into a bank account in your own name. You cannot have the money paid into another person's account. Also note that DKK 70 will be deducted in administration costs from the amount paid into your foreign account. Your own bank may also charge for the transaction.
Amounts of less than DKK 100 can only be paid into a Danish bank account. FerieKonto is unable to transfer amounts of less than DKK 100 to a foreign bank account.
Special terms for holiday allowance earned 1 September 2019 - 31 August 2020
Please note that holiday allowance earned in the period 1 September 2019 – 31 August 2020 has become a savings with Lønmodtagernes Feriemidler – the so-called ‘frozen holiday funds’. You can see when the savings can be paid out here:
Frozen Holiday Funds
Read more and self-services