URL: https://lifeindenmark.borger.dk/working/holiday-allowance-ny/frozen-holiday-funds---loenmodtagernes-feriemidler

Frozen holiday funds - Lønmodtagernes Feriemidler
Deadline for early payment of holiday funds has exceeded
View your holiday funds
Savings
Do I have frozen holiday funds?
If you have been employed in the period from 1 September 2019 to 31 August 2020 and were accruing holidays under the Danish Holiday Act, you have saved up holiday funds.
This period was a transition year to a new Holiday Act in Denmark, and instead of having up to one year of accrued holiday extra, your accrued holidays for the transition year were turned into savings managed by Lønmodtagernes Feriemidler.
You were assigned these savings whether you were a salaried employee or an hourly-paid employee. Your employer is reporting and paying holiday pay to the fund.
You have presumably not accrued holiday funds if you were employed as, for example, a CEO or au pair, as these types of jobs are outside the scope of the Danish Holiday Act.
If you have been hired as an agricultural worker or under the researcher tax scheme (‘forskerskatteordningen’), it will depend on your terms of employment. You can contact your employer to learn about what circumstances you were working under.
If you are unsure whether you have savings, you can contact our customer service for advice and guidance.
View your frozen holiday funds (MitID)
Start
Start View your frozen holiday funds
The holiday funds represent the holiday pay that you accrued from 1 September to 31 August 2020 and amounts to 12.5 per cent of your salary from which holidays are calculated.
In the self-service (Danish only) you can see how much your employer has reported.
View your frozen holiday funds (non-Danish eID)
Start
Start View your frozen holiday funds
The holiday funds represent the holiday pay that you accrued from 1 September to 31 August 2020 and amounts to 12.5 per cent of your salary from which holidays are calculated.
In the self-service (Danish only) you can see how much your employer has reported.
Why are my holiday funds negative?
If your
holiday funds are negative, you have already been paid more than you have
earned.
It is your
employer who has stated how much you have earned.
There can
be various reasons as to why your amount is negative. This may be because a
previous payment was based on a preliminary calculation of your A-income, and
not your employer's information. It may also be because your employer has
changed the information about how much you have earned.
If you
disagree with the amount, please contact your employer.
Do I have to pay the amount back?
If you – in an early payment of holiday
funds – were
paid more holiday
funds than you have
earned, you must pay the excess holiday funds back.
You will
receive a letter,
which will describe how to pay back the excess holiday
funds.
If you do not pay the excess holiday funds back before the payment deadline you see in the letter, you will be charged a fee for every reminder we send you. If you do not pay the full amount of excess holiday pay, your case will be forwarded to the Danish Debt Collection Agency. The agency will then take over the debt recovery of your excess holiday funds.
Payment
Apply to get the savings paid out earlier
You can apply to have the savings paid out before you
reach the Danish state retirement age. You can have the savings paid out when you leave the
Danish labour market and also if you:
get awarded a disability pension
get awarded a senior pension
get awarded an early retirement pension
get awarded a ‘fleksydelse’ (an early retirement
allowance for the beneficiaries of the subsidised flexible employment
scheme)
receive old-age pension benefits coming from an
employment
have a long-term stay abroad i.e. have your address outside Denmark for at least 6 months.
If you have left the Danish labour market, you have to apply to get your savings paid out by filling out a form. If you contact us, we can send you the form.
Contact Lønmodtagernes Feriemidler
When can I get the savings paid out?
You will automatically get the savings paid out when you reach the
Danish state retirement age.
I want to postpone my payout
You have the possibility to postpone the
pay out of your holiday funds.
Approximately 3 months before you reach
the Danish state retirement age, you will receive a letter with information
about the automatic pay out of your holiday funds, and how you can choose to
postpone the payout.
If you choose to postpone the pay out,
your savings will stay in the fund until you choose to get them paid out. Savings in the fund will earn interest.
You can follow the earned interest
through the yearly statement, that you will receive at the beginning of each
calendar year, or you
can see it in the self-service "View your frozen holiday funds".
You can always choose to get
your holiday funds paid out
After postponing your pay out, you can always choose
to get the holiday funds paid out. You do this using the self-service "View your frozen holiday funds".
Should you die
before your savings are paid out, your holiday funds will be automatically paid
out to your NemKonto.
If the payout is
blocked, because your NemKonto is closed, the estate must contact us.
What happens with my holiday funds if I die?
If you die
before your savings are paid out, your holiday funds will be automatically paid
out to your NemKonto.
If the payout is
blocked, because your NemKonto is closed, the estate must contact us.
Deadline for early claim has been exceeded
The deadline for applying for early payment of the holiday funds was 31 May 2021.
If you have been prevented from applying the holiday funds because you have been ill or you have other special reasons, you can contact our customer service, who will assess whether you still can apply.
A special reason could be that your employer has only stated your holiday funds after 31 May 2021.
Other topics
If you disagree or want to complain
Do you disagree with a
decision made by Lønmodtagernes Feriemidler?
If you disagree with a decision made by Lønmodtagernes
Feriemidler or believe that the information the decision is based on is
incomplete or incorrect, you are welcome to contact us.
Contact Lønmodtagernes Feriemidler
Do you want to complain about your payout or account statement?
If you want to
complain about the payout
of your holiday funds or the statement of your account, write us with the
text '“complaint'”
in the subject field. We must receive your complaint no later than 4 weeks
after you have received the payout.
We will re-examine your case and assess
your complaint. If your complaint
is not fully accepted, your complaint together with
the case files will be sent to the National Board of Appeal.
If you have to pay back excess holiday pay and have sent a complaint, you are still obligated to pay back the excess holiday pay on time.
You cannot complain to Lønmodtagernes Feriemidler about your employer's information
We cannot take
a position on or process a complaint about the holiday funds that your employer
has stated that you have earned. If you disagree with your employer's
information, please contact your employer.
ATP's customer ambassador
If you have suggestions for improvement or are dissatisfied, ATP has a customer ambassador you can contact. This could be, for example, if you do not think you have received a good service, or if you think there are
some things ATP can do better. Read how to contact the customer
ambassador:
ATP's customer ambassador
About Lønmodtagernes Feriemidler
Lønmodtagernes
Feriemidler is a fund that has been set up as part of the transition to the new
Danish Holiday Act.
The fund manages the holiday pay of employees that has been
accrued during the transition year from 1 September 2019 to 31 August 2020. The
fund invests the holiday pay until it is paid out to you.
Lønmodtagernes Feriemidler is a fund managed by LD Fonde, which also manages the fund Lønmodtagernes Dyrtidsmidler. The daily administration with collection of the employers and payment to you as an employee is handled by ATP.
Get more information om LD Fonde:
Read more about LD Fonde (in Danish)
Legislation
Here you can find links to the acts and executive orders related to Lønmodtagernes Feriemidler.
Current legislation
Bekendtgørelse af lov om forvaltning og administration af tilgodehavende feriemidler nr. 907 af 23. juni 2024 (in Danish - new window)
Acts
Lov om forvaltning og administration af tilgodehavende feriemidler (in Danish)
Change in the Act by § 2 i Lov om ændring af lov om ferie og
lov om forvaltning og administration af tilgodehavende feriemidler (vedrørende
bl.a. arbejdsgivers årlige bekræftelse, forholdsmæssig indeksering og ændret
klageadgang) (in Danish - new window)
Change in the Act by § 5 i Lov om ændring af lov om Arbejdsmarkedets Tillægspension og forskellige andre love (vedrørende opkrævning af arbejdsgiverbidrag)
Seneste ændring af Lov om forvaltning og administration af tilgodehavende feriemidler vedrørende udbetalingsrunden i 2021 (in Danish)
Change in the Act by § 1 i Lov om ændring af lov om forvaltning og administration af tilgodehavende feriemidler vedrørende udbetalingsrunden i 2020 (in Danish - new window)
Change in the Act by § 10 in Lov om ændring af lov om social pension og forskellige andre love (indførelsen af tidlig pension) (in Danish - new window)
Change in the Act by § 3 in Lov om forvaltning og administration af tilgodehavende feriemidler (in Danish)
Change in the Act by §22 in Lov om social pension mv. (in Danish)
Executive orders
Bekendtgørelse om forvaltning og administration af tilgodehavende feriemidler (in Danish )
Bekendtgørelse om førtidig udbetaling af feriemidler ved en ansøgningsrunde i 2021 (in Danish - new window)
Bekendtgørelse om førtidig udbetaling af feriemidler ved en ansøgningsrunde i 2020 (in Danish - new window)
Bekendtgørelse om fondsferiedage (in Danish)
Written by Lønmodtagernes Feriemidler
Contact Lønmodtagernes Feriemidler
Contact Lønmodtagernes Feriemidler
Last updated: 07 January 2025
A part of
Your Europe
Information services survey