URL: https://lifeindenmark.borger.dk/housing-and-moving/buying/property-assessments-and-property-taxes

Property assessments and property taxes
Get an overview of property assessment and property tax, relevant links, and references to where you can read more
Choose your local municipality in order to see information and online services that apply to you
Read more and self-services
What is a public property assessment?
A property assessment is the Danish government’s assessment of the value of your property.
Your property assessment consists of 2 values:
property value
land value.
The 2 values will be used to calculate your property tax.
Understand your public property assessment (in Danish)
Property value tax: what is it and what are the rules? (in Danish)
Land tax and how it is calculated (in Danish)
When will your property be assessed?
The Danish Property Assessment Agency generally assesses your property every 2 years. You pay property tax on the assessment for the following 2 years until your next assessment, after which your property tax is readjusted.
Since 2020, The Danish Property Assessment Agency has been assessing properties with a new property assessment system. New property assessments are regularly sent out to homeowners.
You will be notified via Digital Post when your property assessment is complete. You can read your Digital Post on several different platforms: lifeindenmark.dk, the Digital Post app, e-Boks and mit.dk.
Property assessment – what happens when? (in Danish)
Appeals
On the Property Assessment Portal, you can read what to do if you wish to complain about a property assessment:
Complain about property assessments – The Property Assessment Portal (in Danish)
Legislation
Property Assessment Act (in Danish)
Law amending the Property Tax Payment Act, etc. (in Danish)
Law amending the property assessment of 27 February 2021 (in Danish)
Law amending the Property Assessment Act, etc. (in Danish)
Please see also
Property assessment (in Danish)
Written by the Danish Property Assessment Agency
Last updated: 09 April 2025
A part of
Your Europe
Information services survey