URL: https://lifeindenmark.borger.dk/about-life-in-denmark/About-lifeindenmark/how-udbetaling-danmark-public-benefits-administration-processes-your-personal-data

Why and how Udbetaling Danmark processes your personal data
Read more and self-services
When you are in contact with Udbetaling Danmark
When you are in contact with Udbetaling Danmark, they process data they have about you. Udbetaling Danmark is responsible for processing the personal data that they have about you.
When you apply for or receive a benefit or some other public service from Udbetaling Danmark, they will inform you about the types of personal data they process about you, how they process it, and the data protection rights available to you when they process your personal data.
This page provides information on:
how Udbetaling Danmark processes your personal data.
how Udbetaling Danmark processes your personal data when you contact them without having a case or when you contact them by phone.
which rights you are entitled to in connection to the processing.
If you want more detailed information about the processing of your personal data in a specific area of Udbetaling Danmark, please go to borger.dk. Search for ’personal data’ and the Danish name of the benefit/area: for example: ’Boligstøtte’ (housing benefits).
Why Udbetaling Danmark processes your personal data
If you contact Udbetaling Danmark without having a case
When you contact Udbetaling Danmark without having a case, data such as your name and phone number will be registered. Your data is registered as documentation of your conversation with Udbetaling Danmark.
Your data will be used in your application process, should you decide to apply for a benefit latter on. In this case, you will receive detailed information about the type of information that is included in the processing of your case.
If you contact Udbetaling Danmark by phone
When you contact Udbetaling Danmark by phone you will be asked to consent to having the call recorded for training purposes and improvement of Udbetaling Danmark's customer service.
If you apply or receive a benefit
If you apply or receive a benefit or service from Udbetaling Danmark, they will process your personal data for the following purposes:
To ensure that you receive the [benefit] you are entitled to.
To train our employees and improve customer service, if you call us and consent to having the call recorded for training purposes.
To test our IT systems in connection with development, optimisation, or error handling.
You will always be informed about the purpose of the processing of your personal information when you apply for or receive a benefit or a service from Udbetaling Danmark. If there are several or other purposes in the specific area, it will be stated in the information, that you receive.
What personal data does Udbetaling Danmark collect about you and where do they collect it?
Udbetaling Danmark will only collect information about you that is necessary to process your case. You will be told what type of data Udbetaling Danmark collects when you apply for or receive a specific benefit or other public service from Udbetaling Danmark.
If you want more detailed information about the processing of your personal data in a specific area of Udbetaling Danmark, please go to borger.dk. Search for ’personal data’ and the Danish name of the benefit/area: for example: ’Boligstøtte’ (housing benefits).
How does Udbetaling Danmark process your personal data?
Udbetaling Danmark processes your personal data in a number of ways, including when they make decisions, calculate, disburse or adjust your benefit or when they take other necessary steps to process your case.
To check whether you are entitled to the benefit or service, that you are applying for or already receiving, Udbetaling Danmark can combine our own information with necessary, non-sensitive personal data that they have collected from other parties. Udbetaling Danmark’s own information about you is the information that you have provided and the information we receive from other departments within Udbetaling Danmark.
Who does Udbetaling Danmark share your personal data with?
Udbetaling Danmark can share information about you with other parties that are authorized to receive it, e.g. public authorities, institutions, and relevant private companies.
You will be told what type of data Udbetaling Danmark shares about you and with who, when you apply for or receive a benefit or a service from Udbetaling Danmark.
If you want more detailed information about the processing of your personal data in a specific area of Udbetaling Danmark, please go to borger.dk. Search for ’personal data’ and the Danish name of the benefit/area: for example: ’Boligstøtte’ (housing benefits).
Does Udbetaling Danmark transfer personal data to countries outside the EU/EEA?
In most cases Udebetaling Danmark does not process information about you outside of the EU/EEA.
If Udbetaling Danmark transfers any of your personal data to a country outside the EU/EEA countries, you will be informed of this when you apply for or start receiving a benefit or service from Udbetaling Danmark. This may be the case if the benefit or service you are applying for or receiving can be taken to a country outside the EU/EEA, with which Denmark has an agreement with.
If you want more detailed information about the processing of your personal data in a specific area of Udbetaling Danmark, please go to borger.dk. Search for ’personal data’ and the Danish name of the benefit/area: for example: ’Boligstøtte’ (housing benefits).
How long does Udbetaling Danmark store your personal data?
In most cases Udbetaling Danmark will store your personal data while they process your case and they will delete it 5 years after the year, in which the case is closed. However, in few cases the rules will be different.
Your personal data is stored after the case is closed in accordance with current legislation (forældelses-, bogførings- and arkivloven).
Udbetaling Danmark will inform you how long they will store your personal data, when you apply for or receive a benefit or a service.
If you want more detailed information about the processing of your personal data in a specific area of Udbetaling Danmark, please go to borger.dk. Search for ’personal data’ and the Danish name of the benefit/area: for example: ’Boligstøtte’ (housing benefits).
If you have called Udbetaling Danmark and consented to having the call recorded, Udbetaling Danmark will automatically delete the recording after 2 months. You can always have the recording deleted sooner by contacting Udbetaling Danmark.
Automated individual decisions
You will be informed whether Udbetaling Danmark makes automated decisions in a specific area when you apply for or receive a specific benefit or service from Udbetaling Danmark.
If you want more detailed information about the processing of your personal data in a specific area of Udbetaling Danmark, please go to borger.dk. Search for ’personal data’ and the Danish name of the benefit/area: for example: ’Boligstøtte’ (housing benefits).
What are your data protection rights?
You can request a copy of the personal data that Udbetaling Danmark process about you (the right to access).
You can object to our processing of your data (the right to object to processing).
You can also request:
to have your personal data rectified or deleted
to have your personal data transferred to you or to someone else (the right to data portability)
to have our processing of your personal data restricted.
There may be exceptions to the listed data protection rights, as they are not absolute and may be conditional or limited. For instance, it is not certain that you have the right to have your personal data deleted in specific instances. This right depends on the reason why we process your personal data, meaning it depends on the specific circumstances connected to our data processing.
If you have custody of or parental responsibility for a minor and information about the child is a part of your case, the data protection rights also apply to the child.
If you have questions
Do you have questions about your benefit or a service?
If you have any questions about your benefit or a service, please contact the specific area of Udbetaling Danmark that pays out your benefit or service.
Contact information - Udbetaling Danmark
If you have questions about your personal data
If you have questions about the way Udbetaling Danmark processes your personal data or if you want insight into or to correct your personal data, you can contact the relevant department in Udbetaling Danmark.
If you send us a message, please write ‘Personal Data’ in subject line.
Contact information - Udbetaling Danmark
What should you do if you think that your personal data protection rights haven’t been respected?
If you think your data protection rights have been breached or if you’re unhappy with the information that Udbetaling Danmark has given you about the way your data is being used, please contact the Data Protection Officer.
Contact the Data Protection Officer
If you disagree with the way Udbetaling Danmark processes your personal data, you can file a complaint to the Danish Data Protection Agency.
Contact the Danish Data Protection Agency
Please note that The Danish Data Protection Agency only handles complaints regarding the use of your personal data. The Danish Data Protection Agency does not handle complaints regarding your case on a specific benefit or service.
If you are dissatisfied with the way Udbetaling Danmark processes your case on a specific benefit or service, please contact Udbetaling Danmark.
Data Controller
Udbetaling Danmark
Kongens Vænge 8
3400 Hillerød
CVR-nr. 33236239
Legal framework
Databeskyttelsesforordningens artikel 6, stk. 1, litra e (almindelige personoplysninger)
Databeskyttelsesforordningens artikel 9, stk. 2, litra f og artikel 9, stk. 2, litra g, jf. databeskyttelseslovens § 7, stk. 4. (følsomme personoplysninger)
Databeskyttelsesforordningens artikel 10, jf. databeskyttelseslovens § 8, stk. 1 og 2. (straffedomme og lovovertrædelser)
Databeskyttelseslovens § 11, stk. 1. (personnummer)
The legal framework is available (in Danish) at
www.retsinformation.dk
and (in all EU languages) at
www.eur-lex.eu
.
Written by Udbetaling Danmark