URL: https://lifeindenmark.borger.dk/pension/seniorpension

Senior Pension
Senior Pension is a benefit for people with reduced working capacity due to work-related ill health
Apply for Senior Pension
Senior Pension
What is Senior Pension?
In Denmark it is not possible to receive your state
pension before your state pension age, regardless of your state of health. But
it may be possible to receive senior pension, if you are no longer able to work
due to ill health.
Senior pension gives people with many years of
employment the opportunity to leave the labor market early.
What conditions do I need to meet?
You need to meet following conditions to receive Senior Pension:
You must have a maximum of six years until the state
pension age.
You must have a permanently reduced working capacity
to the extent that you can work no more than 15 hours per week. Your ability to
work is assessed in relation to your most recent job. This means that it does
not have to be investigated whether you may be able to handle a different type
of job than the one you have.
You must have worked for at least 27 hours a week for
20-25 years.
As a rule, you must also:
Be a Danish citizen
Have permanent residence in Denmark
Have lived in Denmark for at least three years from
the age of 15 until you reached retirement age.
Even if you do not meet the conditions, you may still
be entitled to a senior pension if you meet one of the following conditions:
You are a citizen of another EU/EEA country
or Switzerland and have had a total of at least 3 years of earned
entitlement to pension from an EU/EEA country or Switzerland, of which at
least 1 year was earned in Denmark.
You have lived in Denmark for at least ten
years during the period, from the age of 15 until you reach the retirement
age. Please note that you must have lived in Denmark for at least five
years until you receive your pension.
You are a refugee. You must be a refugee
and have been granted a residence permit in accordance with section 7 or
section 8 of the Immigration Act. Please note that other rules apply if
you have arrived in Denmark after 1 September 2015.
How much can I receive in Senior Pension?
The amount
you can receive in senior pension depends on your income and on your cohabiting relationship.
If you are
married or cohabiting, your senior pension can be reduced if you or your
spouse/cohabitant has an income that is above a certain amount next to your senior pension.
Senior pension per month in DKK before tax (2025)
YEAR
SINGLE
MARRIED OR COHABITING
2025
DKK 21.103
DKK 17.938
Your senior
pension might be inactivated if you can support yourself
Your senior
pension can be inactivated if you work more than 15 hours a week and over a
longer period earn more than DKK 232.500 (2024) / DKK 224.640 (2023) per year.
An inactivation
of your pension means that your payment stops.
How to apply
Apply for Senior Pension
Start
Start Apply for Senior Pension
You can apply for senior pension online
or by post.
To apply online, go to:
Apply for Senior Pension with MitID
If you are unable to apply for senior
pension online, you can request a paper version of the application form by
contacting Seniorpension:
Contact Seniorpension
If
you need help with your application, please your municipality. The application is only available in Danish at the moment.
You can apply
six months before you reach the official age requirement
To be entitled
to senior pension you must have six years or less until the state pension age.
However, you can apply already six months before you reach the age requirement
for senior pension.
When you receive Senior Pension
Udbetaling Danmark pays out your Senior Pension
Seniorpension processes your application and decides whether or not you are entitled to
receive Senior Pension.
If you are entitled and you are granted Senior Pension, Udbetaling Danmark,
Pension, will calculate the amount that you can receive and pay it out to you
to your NemKonto.
NemKonto is a normal bank account, that you assign at
your bank. All citizens in Denmark are required to have a NemKonto when they
receive payments from public institutions.
You will receive letters form Seniorpension and
Udbetaling Danmark, Pension
You
will receive a letter from Seniorpension, if you are entitled to it and latter
a letter from Udbetaling Danmark, Pension.
To
start receiving the amount that you are entitled to, Udbetaling Danmark,
Pension, will need some information from you. The information will be stated in
the letter, that you receive.
When you have received the letter from Udbetaling Danmark you can start the payment here:
Start payment of senior pension (MitID)
When will I receive my Senior Pension?
Udbetaling Danmark, Pension, will pay out your Senior Pension to your
NemKonto on the last banking day each month. Senior Pension is paid in arrears –
fx your pension for March will be paid out at the end of March.
What happens when I go from Senior Pension to State Pension?
Your
Senior Pension is automatically changed to State Pension when you reach state
pension age.
You
will receive a letter from Udbetaling Danmark 6 months before you reach the
state pension age.
Read more about State Pension
What happens to my Senior Pension when I move abroad?
Read more about the rules for taking your Senior Pension with you when you move abroad:
International Pension - Taking Danish State, Senior or Disability Pension abroad
Who should you contact and when if considering Senior Pension?
Who should I contact?
ADVICE AND GUIDANCE
PLEASE CONTACT:
Your local authority/municipality will help
you if you have any questions about your personal situation. They will help you
with advice and guidance in relation to your opportunities to apply for Senior
Pension, inform you about possible financial consequences, help you with your
application and much more.
Your local authority/municipality
PROCESSING OF YOUR APPLICATION
If
you have any questions about your application or your case, for example case processing
time, what to do if you want to work again, etc.
Seniorpension
CALCULATION AND PAYMENT
Questions about the calculation of the amount that you are entitled to or any questions about the payout of your Senior Pension.
Udbetaling Danmark, Pension
You can find your municipality's telephone number on the municipality's website.
Contact Udbetaling Danmark, Pension
Other subjects
Case processing limit
You will receive a decision no later than 6 months after you have applied. This is the time it takes to process your application.
If you wish to file a complaint
If you wish to complain about the processing of your application
If you are not satisfied with how Seniorpension has dealt with your application, you are welcome to contact Seniorpension. Sometimes misunderstandings can occur and can easily be resolved with a verbal explanation.
If you disagree with a decision
Seniorpension processes your application and decides if you are entitled
to receive Senior Pension. Therefore, you should contact Seniorpension if you
disagree with their decision. Seniorpension must receive your complaint, no later
than 4 weeks after you have received the decision.
Contact Seniorpension
It is Udbetaling Danmark, Pension, that calculates and pays out Senior
Pension. You are welcome to contact Udbetaling Danmark, Pension, if you are
dissatisfied with the calculation or payment of your Senior Pension. If you
disagree with a decision from Udbetaling Danmark, you can appeal against it.
Payment Denmark must have your complaint, no later than 4 weeks after you have
received the decision.
Contact Udbetaling Danmark, Pension
How to file a complaint to Seniorpension
You can file a complaint by calling Seniorpension or sending your complaint til Seniorpension, preferably marked 'Klage over Senior Pension'.
Contact Senior Pension
How to file a complaint to Udbetaling Danmark
You can file a complaint by calling Udbetaling Danmark or sending your complaint to Udbetaling Danmark, Pension, preferably marked ‘Klage over Senior Pension’.
Contact Udbetaling Danmark, Pension
Legal framework
Lov om social pension (In Danish - new window)
Bekendtgørelse om social pension (In Danish - new window)
Bekendtgørelse om seniorpension (In Danish - new window)
Written by Seniorpension, ATP
Contact Seniorpension
Contact Seniorpension
Last updated: 03 March 2025
A part of
Your Europe
Information services survey