URL: https://lifeindenmark.borger.dk/family-and-children/preventive-healthcare-services-for-children-and-adolescents

Preventive healthcare services for children and adolescents
The aim of preventive healthcare for children and adolescents is to ensure healthy growth and create good conditions for a healthy adult life
Choose your local municipality in order to see information and online services that apply to you
Read more and self-services
Regular free healthcare service by your family doctor (GP)
Preventive healthcare for children and adolescents are set in place in order to ensure healthy growth and create good conditions for a healthy adult life. All children in Denmark are offered regular free healthcare services by their family doctor (GP, general practitioner).
Children between 0 and 5 years old are entitled to 7 free preventive health examinations by a family doctor (GP). 3 of these examinations are within the child’s first year.
You need to contact your child’s GP yourself to make an appointment for these examinations.
Find a healthcare provider at sundhed.dk (in Danish)
Municipal doctors and health visitors
Provide information and guidance about health and prevention of illness for children within their environment at home, nurseries, day-care centres, and schools.
Keeps an eye on each individual child’s physical health and well-being.
Home visits by a health visitor
When you have had a child, the health visitor will contact you to arrange a visit.
The health visitor provides guidance on, amongst other things, breast feeding, diet, cooking, child care and development, everyday life, and parental roles and responsibility.
The health visitor can help you get in contact with other parents and set up mothers’ and fathers’ groups.
Health examinations for school children
All schoolchildren must be offered 2 preventative health examinations by a municipal doctor or health visitor:
the first health examination must be offered during the 1st year of school.
the second health examination must be offered before the child graduates secondary school.
In addition, regular contact during school time is offered in order to detect any general or individual health problems.
Legislation
Law on health (in Danish)
Regulation on dental care (in Danish)
Please see also
Law on health (in Danish)
Regulation on dental care (in Danish)
Written by the Ministry of the Interior and Health
Last updated: 18 June 2025
A part of
Your Europe
Information services survey