URL: https://lifeindenmark.borger.dk/working/holiday-allowance-ny/holiday-allowance/Holiday-allowance-from-FerieKonto

Holiday allowance from FerieKonto
Read more and self-services
If you are paid by the hour
If you are paid by the hour, your employer reports and pays your holiday
allowance to FerieKonto every month ongoing. The exact deadline depends on when
your pay period ends.
If your pay
period ends between the 1st and 15th, your employer must
report your holiday allowance at the latest by the end of that same month.
If your pay period
ends between the 16th and the end of the month, your employer must
report your holiday allowance at the latest the 15th of the
following month.
You can see and disburse your
holiday allowance approx. three working days after it has been reported and
paid.
If you resigned as a salaried employee
If you are entitled to paid holiday, your employer is not required to pay
your holiday allowance until you resign. Your employer must report and pay out
your allowance to FerieKonto latest on the last bank day of the month you
resigned.
That means that you can see the payment on the self-service page at
the latest three days after the month you resigned.
If your employer does not pay your holiday allowance
Your employer is obliged to pay you the holiday allowance to which you are entitled. Only in special situations, your employer may effect set-offs against your holiday allowance, i.e. omit to disburse your holiday allowance to you.
You must contact your employer in writing to get your holiday allowance. If your employer still does not pay, you are entitled to seek to obtain the allowance no later than three years after the end of the holiday year by taking legal action, by reporting the matter to the police, by subjecting the matter to industrial disputes procedures. Contact your union for help if you are a member of a union.
If your employer has gone into bankruptcy, you must contact LG (the Employees' Guarantee Fund):
Learn more about LG