URL: https://lifeindenmark.borger.dk/family-and-children/family-benefits/support-in-connection-with-birth-maternity-and-naming--including-christening

Support in connection with birth, maternity and naming, including christening
You can apply online for support in connection with birth, maternity and naming, including christening
Choose your local municipality in order to see information and online services that apply to you
Read more and self-services
What is birth support (fødselsbidrag)?
If the parents of a child are not living together at the time the child is born, the mother will be entitled to have a proportion of her expenses relating to the birth reimbursed by the other parent. Birth support is a lump sum of DKK 976 in 2025.
You and the other parent can draw up an agreement concerning birth support yourselves. You do not need to involve the Agency of Family Law in the agreement. If you are unable to reach an agreement, you can apply for birth support from the Agency of Family Law.
Contact the Agency of Family Law
Apply for birth support
If you have agreed the amount that is to be paid, you and the other parent can draw up an agreement concerning birth support yourself.
You do not need to involve the Agency of Family Law in your agreement.
If you are unable to reach an agreement, you can apply for birth support from the Agency of Family Law.
Contact the Agency of Family Law
What is maternity support for the mother around the time of birth barselsbidrag?
If the parents of a child are not living together at the time the child is born, the mother will be entitled to have a proportion of her expenses relating to the period 2 months before and 1 month after the birth reimbursed by the other parent.
The support amounts to DKK 1,699 in 2025 and is paid over 3 months.
Apply for maternity support for the mother around the time of birth
You and the other parent can draw up an agreement concerning support for the mother around the time of birth yourself. It is a good idea to establish a written agreement.
The support is normally paid over 3 months – 2 months before and 1 month after the birth.
Normal support amounts to DKK 1,699 per month in 2025.
When you draw up an agreement yourself, you do not need to involve the Agency of Family Law.
If you are unable to reach an agreement, you can apply to the Agency of Family Law for support for your maintenance around the time of the birth.
Contact the Agency of Family Law
What is naming/christening support (navngivnings-/dåbsbidrag)?
If the parents of a child are not living together at the time the child is born, or separate soon after the birth, the mother will be entitled to have a proportion of her expenses relating to the naming or christening of the child reimbursed by the other parent.
Naming/christening support is a lump sum which has been set to DKK 1,419 in 2025.
Apply for naming/christening support
You can draw up an agreement concerning naming/christening support yourselves. It is a good idea to establish a written agreement. If you are responsible for the agreement yourselves, you do not need to involve the Agency of Family Law. If the parents are unable to reach agreement, the mother can apply to the Agency of Family Law for naming/christening support.
The agency will then decide whether you are entitled to the support.
Contact the Agency of Family Law
Application deadlines
If the Agency of Family Law receives your application within no more than 2 months after the event which triggered the support, we will determine the support that is payable.
Possible events which trigger entitlement to support include:
birth of the child
conclusion of the paternity case, if this case was initiated in connection with the birth of the child.
Applying for a contribution in relation to birth, maternity leave and naming
Start
Start Apply for a contribution in relation to birth, maternity leave and naming
What should I do if I do not receive my support?
If support determined by the Agency of Family Law is not paid on time, you can apply to Udbetaling Danmark to ask them to pay the support.
Based on your support decision, Udbetaling Danmark will pay an advance on the support, meaning before it is paid by the parent that is responsible for paying the support.
The same conditions apply to support which is paid in advance.
You must arrange for the collection and advance payment of naming/christening support yourself.
Who should I contact if I have any questions?
The Agency of Family Law determines and adjusts special support, while Udbetaling Danmark collects special support and, where appropriate, pays advances on such support.
When do you contact the Agency of Family Law?
Contact the Agency of Family Law if you have any questions regarding the support decision or the amount of support.
Contact the Agency of Family Law
When do you contact Udbetaling Danmark?
If you have any questions regarding collection of the support, contact Udbetaling Danmark  by phone on +45 70 12 80 62 or via Digital Post to ‘Familieydelser’ (Family benefits).
Send Digital Post to Udbetaling Danmark, Family benefits, bidrag
Appeals
If you disagree with the decision made by the Agency of Family Law concerning support, you can appeal against it. Enclosed with the decision, you will receive guidance on how to appeal.
The Agency of Family Law must receive your appeal no more than 4 weeks after you received the decision.
Legislation
Child Allowance Act (in Danish)
The Executive Order on Allowances (in Danish)
Income summary for the determination of child and spousal support in 2020 (in Danish)
Please see also
Guide: When you split up (in Danish)
Written by the Agency of Family Law
Last updated: 29 April 2025
A part of
Your Europe
Information services survey