URL: https://lifeindenmark.borger.dk/healthcare/death-and-funerals/funeral-benefits

Funeral benefits
You can apply for funeral benefits if the Probate Court has distributed all assets to beneficiaries
Read more and self-services
What are funeral benefits?
The purpose
of funeral benefits is to help pay funeral costs when a family member passes
away.
The amount
depends on the deceased person’s age, family circumstances, assets and the
assets of any spouse. Assistance with funeral expenses is a one-off payment and
is not taxable.
Who can apply for funeral benefits?
You can
apply for funeral benefits if the Probate Court has distributed all assets to
beneficiaries and the deceased had the right to Danish health insurance.
You
can apply as soon as the death estate of the deceased has been settled.
How much can I get?
How much you will get depends on the age, family
circumstances, fortune and marital property, if the deceased was married. The
benefit is paid out as a lump sum, that you do not have to pay taxes off.
If
the deceased was 18 years or older
If the
deceased was 18 years or older, you can receive a maximum of DKK 12,950 (2025)
in funeral benefits.
The benefit
depends on the deceased’s fortune:
If the deceased leaves behind children under the age of 18 or a
spouse, the funeral benefit will be reduced, if the total asset value of the
deceased or the spouse on the day of the death exceeds DKK 43,300 (2025). You
will not be eligible for the benefit, if the total fortune exceeds DKK 56,250 (2025).
If
the deceased does not have children under the age of 18 or a spouse, the
funeral benefit will be reduced. You will however not be entitled to the
benefit, if the deceased’s assets exceed DKK 21,700 (2025). You will not be eligible for the benefit, if the total fortune exceeds DKK 34,650 (2025).
Examples of assets include:
deposit
in a bank
mortgage
deeds and market value of bonds and shares
cash
property
value of shares in cooperative housing associations
shares and investment certificates
one-off payments as a result of the death – one-off
payments are included in the assets, even if the amount is paid out after the
death
documented debt.
Any expenses related to the funeral – undertaker fees, gatherings, catering etc. – are not included in the asset statement.
If the deceased was born
before 1 April 1957
If the
deceased was born before 1 April 1957, you can receive at least DKK 1,050 in
funeral benefits regardless of his or her assets.
If the deceased was under
the age of 18
You can
receive DKK 10,800 (2025) in funeral benefits if the deceased was under the age
of 18.
Apply for funeral benefits
Start
Start Apply for funeral benefits
Usually it
is the chosen undertaker who applies for the benefits on your behalf.
But you can
also apply for the benefits yourself.
Apply for funeral benefits (in Danish)
What documentation do I need to send when applying?
When applying for funeral benefits, you must send
documentation of wealth/assets and debt as well as documentation from the
probates court’s handling of the death estate.
The documentation you need to send depends on how the
death estate has been handled. In the table below, you can see the different
ways a death estate can be processed and what documentation you need to send to
Udbetaling Danmark when applying.
In this table, you can see the different ways a death estate can be processed and what documentation you need to send to Udbetaling Danmark when applying.
The estate of the deceased person was handled as
You must send
Estate disbursement
probate court certificate
documentation of the deceased persons debt
documentation of the spouse’s property and assets
documentation of the spouse’s debt, including any separate property/estate
Undivided possession of an estate or spouse’s advance entitlement
probate court certificate
a copy of the form 'formueoversigt' or a copy of
the form 'formueskema'.
documentation of assets and debt including any separate property/estate
You must send documentation for both you and your spouse.
Estate released for administration out of court,
either as 'Forenklet privat skifte' or as  'Almindeligt privat skifte'
probate court certificate
the document 'Åbningsstatus', which includes
information about the deceased person’s assets and debt at the time of
death
documentation of assets and debt
information about the spouse’s property and
assets
documentation of the spouse’s debt, including any
separate property/estate
If you already have a finished estate inventory you do not need to send the
document 'Åbningsstatus'.
Estate administered by an executor
probate court certificate
estate inventory
documentation of the
spouse’s assets and debt, including any separate property/estate
Below you will find the Asset Information, that you will need when documenting
wealth. Remember to attach it when applying for funeral benefits:
Asset Information – funeral benefits
How and when will the funeral benefit be paid out?
The funeral benefit will be paid out to
your NemKonto account.
NemKonto is
a normal bank account, that you assign at your bank. All citizens in Denmark
are required to have a NemKonto if they receive payments from public
institutions.
What is a NemKonto and how do I assign one?
If an undertaker applies on your behalf,
the payment will often be made directly to the undertaker.
The funeral benefits will be paid out to
you, when the death state has been settled and Udbetaling Denmark has received
all the necessary information and documentation from you.
Can I receive funeral benefits if the deceased lived in an EU/EEA country, Switzerland or the United Kingdom?
As a relative, you may be entitled to funeral
assistance if the deceased lived abroad.
If the deceased lived in an EU/EEA country, Switzerland or the United Kingdom, then the rules of EU law apply. This means that you can get
funeral assistance if:
The deceased was socially secured in Denmark – for
example if the deceased worked in Denmark or received Danish State or
Disability Pension at the time of death
You can document that you have access to the death
estate.
You can also contact Udbetaling Danmark if you have
further questions about funeral benefits for a deceased person who lived
abroad.
Case processing time limit
The case processing time limit is 1 month. The case processing time limit
period begins the same day Udbetaling Danmark receives your application.
You can help ensure that your application is processed as soon as possible
by:
Attaching
the required documentation
Ensuring
that your information in the Civil Registration System (CPR) is correct.
If you want to file a complaint
If you
disagree with the decision of funeral benefits you may file a complaint to
‘Styrelsen for Patientklager’. They must receive
your complaint no later than 4 weeks after you received the decision.
Complain about a violation of your patient rights
Legal framework
You can
read more in:
Bekendtgørelsen omkring begravelseshjælp (in Danish – new window)
Satser for begravelseshjælp for 2024 (in Danish – new window)
Satser for begravelseshjælp for 2025 (in Danish - new window)
How Udbetaling Danmark processes your personal data
When you contact Udbetaling Danmark, the
administration is obliged as a public authority to register and save your
personal data.
This Policy for protection of personal data
provides information on how Udbetaling Danmark handles your personal data and
your rights in relation to the same.
How Udbetaling Danmark processes your personal data
Written by Udbetaling Danmark, Begravelseshjælp
Contact Udbetaling Danmark, Funeral benefits
Contact Udbetaling Danmark, Funeral Benefits
Last updated: 16 January 2025
A part of
Your Europe
Information services survey