URL: https://lifeindenmark.borger.dk/working/work-rights/bankruptcy-and-cessation-of-operations/payment-in-the-event-of-bankruptcy/LG-processing-times

What are LG's case processing times?
Read more and self-services
LG's case processing times
When will LG process my case?
You should expect it to take up to 35 working days from LG receives your claim until you hear from LG.
If you are also claiming wages during your notice period, LG must process your case twice.
Why is my case taking longer?
If documentation or information is missing in the case, you should expect longer case processing times. When LG receives the new information, it may be an additional 30 working days until you hear from LG again.
When your notice period expires
When your notice period expires, LG calculates your final claim based on the information you provide on the 'Oplysninger om indtægt og jobsøgning i opsigelsesperioden' form (Information on income and job search in the notice period).
In this case, too, it may be up to 30 working days until you receive LG's last statement.
When will I receive my wages and my holiday allowance?
It will be 3 to 5 working days from LG pays until the money is available in your NemKonto (automatically assigned personal bank account). If you have issued a power of attorney to your trade union or unemployment insurance fund, LG pays the money to them.
It may take up to 10 days before your holiday allowance is registered with FerieKonto.
If you disagree or want to complain
The Employees' Guarantee Fund (LG) ensures that employees receive wages etc. when their employer is declared bankrupt or ceases operations. LG can also help the employer to pay wages to employees working for the company, while it is subject to financial reconstruction.
If you do not agree with LG's decision
The legislation to which LG is subject falls within the Danish Ministry of Employment, but you cannot complain about the decision to the Ministry. If you do not agree with LG's decision, you are welcome to contact us and possibly send further documentation supporting your claim. LG will review your case and send you a new decision.
If you still do not believe that our decision is correct, you will have to initiate legal proceedings against LG at the courts. LG has no appeals board, and therefore the case can only continue at the courts. In this case, you must contact the court in Hillerød.
Contact the customer ambassador
If you are dissatisfied with the service you received from LG, you can contact ATP's customer ambassador:
ATP's customer ambassador
Legislation
View laws and executive orders