URL: https://lifeindenmark.borger.dk/working/the-danish-tax-system/deductions-and-allowances

Deductions and allowances
You get most deductions automatically, but you have to enter some in E-tax (TastSelv) yourself
Choose your local municipality in order to see information and online services that apply to you
Read more and self-services
Log on to E-tax
Start
Start Log on to the Danish Tax Agency's E-tax (self-service system)
What are deductions and allowances?
A tax deduction or allowance (called ‘fradrag’ in Danish) is an amount you don’t pay tax on. You pay tax on your income automatically, but you are entitled to certain tax deductions and allowances, depending on your personal and financial situation. This reduces the tax you have to pay.
Depending on your situation, you may be entitled to different tax deductions and allowances in Denmark.
An example of a tax deduction is the deduction for transport between home and work (‘kørselsfradrag’ in Danish): You are entitled to this deduction if you have more than 12 kilometres to work (a total of 24 kilometres to and from work a day).
Another example of a tax allowance is the personal allowance (‘personfradrag’) that all citizens in Denmark automatically get. It means that you can earn a certain amount taxfree – and if you earn more than that, you then have to pay tax.
Which deductions are you entitled to?
The Danish Tax Agency's deduction guide tells you which deductions and allowances may be relevant for you. Please note that the guide only applies when you are subject to full tax liability. Check out the guide at skat.dk:
Guide: Which deductions are you entitled to?
Deductions you must check and correct on your tax assessment notice and preliminary income assessment in E-tax (TastSelv)
You get some deductions and allowances automatically. Others, you have to enter on your tax assessment notice (årsopgørelse) yourself, such as:
Household services
Home improvement services
Deduction for transport between home and work
Shares and other securities
Cryptocurrency
Revenues from sharing economy activities
Child allowance and tax (in Danish)
Food and accommodation and double housekeeping
Deductions for workwear, courses, etc.
Tax assessment notice (årsopgørelse)
Check your tax assessment notice (årsopgørelse) in E-tax
Preliminary income assessment (forskudsopgørelse)
You should also enter your expected deductions in your preliminary income assessment (forskudsopgørelse), so you pay the correct amount of taxes each month:
Change your preliminary income assessment
Value of your deductions: the value is approximately one third of the deduction
As a rule of thumb, the value of a deduction is approximately one third of the amount.
For example, if you have spent 10,000 DKK on household services, you get a tax refund of approximately 2,600 DKK. That means that you actually only paid 7,400 DKK for the household service.
Written by the Danish Tax Agency
Last updated: 06 June 2025