URL: https://lifeindenmark.borger.dk/healthcare/health-insurance/blue-european-health-insurance-card/how-international-health-insurance-at-udbetaling-danmark-processes-your-personal-data

How International Health Insurance at Udbetaling Danmark processes your personal data
Read more and self-services
Introduction
When you apply for a special health insurance card, apply for EU health insurance card, or provide information for use for assessment of your health insurance country you consent to Udbetaling Danmark – Public Benefits Administration processing some information about you. This information is known as personal data.
Here, you can read about the data we process, how we process them and what rights you have in this connection.
First time contacting Udbetaling Danmark
First time you contact Udbetaling Danmark, data such as your name and phone number will be registered.
The data will be used in the application process, should you decide to apply for a benefit latter on. In such case, you will receive detailed information about the type of information that is included in the processing of your case.
What data does Udbetaling Danmark process?
When you apply for a special health insurance card, an EU health insurance card or provide information for use for assessment of your health insurance country, you automatically consent to Udbetaling Danmark processing some information about you. This information is known as personal data.
Udbetaling Danmark may exchange your personal data with other authorities, employers, banks etc. when it is necessary for managing your case.
Udbetaling Danmark processes the personal data which form part of your application and your case. This may, for example, be details about your country of residence, your stay in Denmark and your citizenship. We
receive this information from the Civil Registration Office, Skatteforvaltningen (the Danish Customs and Tax Administration) and foreign authorities.
How does Udbetaling Danmark process your personal data?
We process your data on the basis of the Danish Act on Udbetaling Danmark (Lov om Udbetaling Danmark) and other acts.
When we process your case, we may share your personal data with other public and/or foreign authorities and private individuals who by law are entitled to receive the data, or with whom we cooperate.
To process your case correctly, we may receive, share and correlate some data without asking you:
We may share data with municipal authorities with a view to recalculating, offsetting, performing other follow-up or checking the disbursement of benefits to which you may not be entitled.
We may obtain financial information from other authorities and unemployment funds if this is necessary to decide your case, and we can ask the municipal authorities to check your salary payments.
We may obtain information from other authorities, employers, banks etc. in cases concerning repayments if this is necessary to decide such cases.
If we or the municipal authorities have set up a case to check whether you are entitled to other benefits, we may share the necessary information about your case, e.g. the issue under examination, and the steps taken in the case. This also applies to cases that have been closed within the past six months.
In order to check the correctness of the information, we may correlate our own data with any necessary non-sensitive personal data from other Danish or foreign authorities and unemployment funds and in some cases, we may correlate the results with information from PostNord or other postal operators (profile).
If Udbetaling Danmark discloses data about you to a public authority in a third country, this is done on the basis of the existing legislation and to ensure that our disbursements to you are or have been correct.
Udbetaling Danmark will store your data during the handling of your case and delete them five years after the case has been concluded. The data will be stored after the case has been concluded in accordance to the law Danish Limitations Act (Forældelsesloven) and the Danish Archives Act (Arkivloven) etc.
Udbetaling Danmark can make decisions based solely on automated processing of data. Decisions based solely on automated processing, are typically carried out by Udbetaling Danmark automatically comparing the data collected from public registers with the data, they already have about you.
When you contact Udbetaling Danmark by phone, you might be asked for permission to record the conversation. The recording will only be used for training purposes and customer experience improvement. The conversation will only be recorded if you give us your permission to do so. All recorded conversations will be deleted after two months. You can always contact Udbetaling Danmark, if you wish to have the recording deleted sooner.
What rights do you have?
You can always withdraw your consent easily. You can do it by contacting us. If you withdraw your consent, your application may be rejected and your registration of health insurance country will be changed.
You may object to Udbetaling Danmark processing personal data about you.
You may obtain a copy of the data that Udbetaling Danmark processes about you. You may also request:
that your personal data is rectified or deleted
that the data is sent to you or another party
that Udbetaling Danmark suspends the data processing.
Finally, you may object to Udbetaling Danmark making automated decisions. If you have any questions about how Udbetaling Danmark processes your personal data, you can contact the Data Protection Officer.
Contact the Data Protection Officer for Udbetaling Danmark and ATP
If you disagree with the way in which Udbetaling Danmark processes your personal data, you can complain to the Danish Data Protection Agency (Datatilsynet).
Please note that the Danish Data Protection Agency is only the complaints board regarding the processing of your personal data, but not in relation to the handling of your health insurance country. If you disagree with Udbetaling Danmark's processing of your case concerning health insurance country, you must contact Udbetaling Danmark.
Legal framework
You can read more in:
The Danish Act on Udbetaling Danmark – Public Benefits Administration (in Danish)
Regulation (EC) no. 883/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the Coordination of Social Security Systems (in Danish)
The Danish Health Act (in Danish)
The General Data Protection Regulation
The Danish Data Protection Act (PDF)
Written by Udbetaling Danmark