URL: https://lifeindenmark.borger.dk/travel-and-transport/motor-vehicles/compulsory-liability-insurance-for-motor-vehicles

Compulsory liability insurance for motor vehicles
If a motor vehicle is used in traffic, the vehicle must be covered by a liability insurance
Read more and self-services
Who are obliged to take out a liability insurance for a motor vehicle?
For motor vehicles that must be registered (cars, motorcycles etc.), the obligation to take out the liability insurance rests with the owner of the vehicle or the person (user) who disposes of the vehicle on a permanent basis.
What must the liability insurance cover?
The liability insurance must cover personal injuries or loss of breadwinner for a minimum amount of DKK 146 million per accident (2025). The insurance must also cover damages on property for a minimum amount of DKK 29 million (2025).
What happens if I do not take out a liability insurance for my motor vehicle?
If you do not take out a liability insurance you will be charged a daily fee of DKK 250 (2025) by the Danish Motor Insurers’ Bureau (DFIM) for each day the motor vehicle is uninsured. If you are stopped by the police and do not have a valid liability insurance, you will receive a fine of DKK 1,000 (2025).
What am I obliged to do in the case of an accident?
If you are involved in an accident you must stop your vehicle, help any injured persons and take safety measures to secure the traffic. If you do not help an injured in an accident you may be sentenced to prison.
Upon request, you are obliged to provide your name and residence (address) to any other person involved in the accident, or to the person whose property has been damaged. Normally, you also provide the person with the registration number of your vehicle.
If you have caused considerable physical injuries to another person, you are obliged to call the police. You are also obliged to call the police or the person whose property has been damaged, if the person is not present to receive your name and residence (address).
If you do not comply with these requirements you will receive a fine of DKK 5,000 (2025).
I have been involved in an accident – how do I claim compensation?
Compensation claims should be reported to your own insurance company or directly to the other driver’s insurer. If you are in doubt of the procedure you should always contact your own insurance company.
If you have the registration number of the other driver’s vehicle you can check if the vehicle is covered by a liability insurance at DMR (Danish Motor Register).
Claims regarding an accident caused by an uninsured or unidentified motor vehicle may be submitted to the Danish Motor Insurers’ Bureau (DFIM). Personal details, details about the accident, and relevant documentation are needed in this context. DFIM is also recognized as Information Centre in Denmark. DFIM exchange insurance details on motor vehicles with information centers in other EU member states and Danish insurance companies respectively.
Is claims history taken into account when determining the insurance premium?
Claims history may be taken into account when insurance companies determine the premium. Insurance companies exchange claims history via the platform, EDI. Exchange of information always requires consent of the person concerned.
For more details regarding the use of claims history, including claims history from other countries, you should ask the specific insurance company.
Appeals
Questions about liability insurance for motor vehicles, and compensation in this regard, are a civil matter.
Complaints about disputes with insurance companies can be submitted to The Insurance Complaints Board.
The Insurance Complaints Board
Legislation
Danish Road Traffic Act (in Danish)
Executive order regarding compulsory motor liability insurance (in Danish)
Please see also
Danish Motor Register (in Danish)
Danish Motor Insurers' Bureau (in Danish)
The Insurance Complaints Board
Written by the Ministry of Transport
Last updated: 20 February 2025
A part of
Your Europe
Information services survey