URL: https://lifeindenmark.borger.dk/working/work-rights/bankruptcy-and-cessation-of-operations/payment-in-the-event-of-bankruptcy/how-lg-processes-your-personal-data

How LG processes your personal data
Read more and self-services
Introduction
Here you can learn about what data LG processes, how the data is processed and what rights you have when we process cases and inquiries concerning:
Salary for work performed
Salary during the termination period
Legal costs and interest
Pension
Holiday pay
Allowance
Outstanding holiday pay for the transition year
Any other potential salary claims.
LG is responsible for the processing of the personal data that we have about you.
Why LG is processing your personal data
We process your personal data for the following purposes:
To ensure that you get paid the claims you are entitled to for owed salary, compensation and payment in lieu of untaken days of holiday and for reporting owed holiday pay to Lønmodtagernes Feriemidler, etc. in the event of your employer’s bankruptcy, shutdown and insolvency or death and insolvency or the employer’s ongoing restructuring.
Recovery of paid holiday funds from your employer.
To collect the unpaid claims from dissolved and/or solvent employers and/or their bankruptcy estates and in some situations the new employer when a company has been acquired by a public buyer or a private buyer covered by a public guarantee.
To ensure that you get paid salary from your employer during the employer’s restructuring when LG, upon being requested, provides loans to the employer to pay salaries.
To support an effective, correct and uniform case processing by transferring certain data to a knowledge base database.
To support an appropriate, effective and financially sound operation and to administer the scheme by transferring, storing and comparing certain information in a data warehouse and thereby ensure available and specified data about the operation and administration of the scheme.
To train our employees and improve the customer experience (if you call us and accept that we can record the conversation).
To test our systems in connection with development, optimisation of operations and, if relevant, fixing errors.
What data do we process?
We only collect information about you that we need to process your case.
We collect the following types of personal data about you:
Common personal data
We receive civil registration numbers and other basic data from the Danish Civil Register.
We receive information about income, etc. from the Danish Tax Agency.
We receive information about account numbers/NemKonto from the Agency for Digital Government.
We receive information about your employment conditions from your employer.
We receive information about employment conditions from the curator/bankruptcy estates/estate of a deceased person/restructuring agent.
In some cases we receive information about payments from other guarantee schemes from foreign authorities.
We receive information about owed holiday pay and holiday funds from holiday guarantee funds/holiday funds, FerieKonto and Lønmodtagernes Feriemidler.
In special cases, we receive information about benefits that are relevant to the processing of your case from a municipality.
Sensitive personal data
In special cases we receive health information that is relevant to the processing of your case from a municipality.
We receive information about memberships in labour unions/unemployment insurance funds from labour unions and unemployment insurance funds.
Convictions and violations of the law
In special cases, we receive information about convictions and violations of the law that are relevant to the processing of your case from the police.
How do we process your personal data?
We process your data on the basis of the Danish Act on the Employees’ Guarantee Fund (bekendtgørelse af lov om Lønmodtagernes Garantifond).
LG can obtain and coordinate data for case processing and for checking payments, etc. This can be done with the help of Udbetaling Danmark – Public Benefits Administration on the basis of special provisions in the Danish Udbetaling Danmark Act and established guidelines, including those for erasure of data.
We may pass on information about you to other public authorities such as the Danish Tax Agency, Udbetaling Danmark – Public Benefits Administration or the police that pursuant to the law are entitled to receive the information or which LG works together with.
Who do we pass on your personal data to?
We can pass on information about you to others who are entitled to receive the information, such as authorities, institutions and relevant private companies (see below).
We pass on the following types of personal data about you:
Common personal data
We pass on information about payments, etc. to the Danish Tax Agency.
We pass on information about payments and the reason for the payments to your employer or your employer's representative.
We pass on information about payments to foreign authorities.
We pass on information about payments, etc. to curators/bankruptcy estates/estate of a deceased person/restructuring agents.
We pass on information about payments and the related calculations to the entity acquiring a company.
We pass on information about you receive a non-income dependent benefit (but not which type of benefit) to pension companies.
We pass on information about the payment of holiday pay in the transition year, etc. to holiday pay guarantee funds, holiday funds, FerieKonto and Lønmodtagernes Feriemidler.
In some cases, we have to pass on your case to the Danish National Archives.
Sensitive personal data
In special cases and in connection with a specific case processing, we pass on health information to municipalities.
Convictions and violations of the law
In special cases and in connection with a specific case processing we pass on information about potentially illegal matters and violations of the law to the police.
How long do we store your personal data?
We store your information while processing the case and delete it 10 years after the bankruptcy estate has been terminated. If the estate is shut down before the payments to employees have been completed, we delete the data 10 years after the final decision/payment was made. The time of deletion is defined based on the latest decision/payment for the whole bankruptcy process. The information is stored after the case has been closed due to rules in the Danish Limitation Act, the Danish Bookkeeping Act and the Danish Archiving Act.
If you have consented to LG recording a conversation, LG deletes this conversation after 2 months. You can always have the conversation deleted earlier by contacting LG.
What are your rights?
You may object to LG’s keeping personal data about you.
You can receive a copy of the data, which LG keeps about you.
You may also request:
to have your personal data rectified or erased
to have the data sent to you or someone else
to have LG suspend the processing of your data
Finally, you may object to LG making automated decisions.
If you ask to have your personal data erased, LG may not be able to comply with your request. There may be conditions or limitations to the rights mentioned above. It is therefore not guaranteed that, for example, you have the right to have your personal data deleted in a specific context – this will depend on the specific circumstances in connection with the data processing. Among other things, this may be due to your personal data being used in a case involving a payment to a third party or for legal compliance reasons.
If you have questions
Do you have any questions for LG about your case?
If you have any questions about your case for LG, please contact LG.
Contact LG
Do you have any questions about your personal data?
If you have any questions concerning LG’s processing of your personal data or if you want to exercise your rights to, for example, get access to or erase your personal data, you can contact LG.
Contact LG
If you write to LG, please write “personal data” in the subject line.
Are you unsatisfied with the processing of your personal data?
You can contact the Data Protection Officer, if you think
that you have not received a satisfactory response to your request for access to your personal data
that LG has not respected your rights
Contact the Data Protection Officer (DPO) for ATP and Udbetaling Danmark
If you disagree with the way in which LG processes your personal data, you may submit a complaint to the Danish Data Protection Agency.
Please note that the Danish Data Protection Agency is only a complaints body in respect LG’s processing of personal data and not the handling of your case.
If you disagree with the way in which LG is handling your case, you should contact LG.
Data Controller
Lønmodtagernes Garantifond, LG
Kongens Vænge 8, 3400 Hillerød
Central business registration number: 11043739
Legislation
Article 6(1)(e) of the General Data Protection Regulation (common personal data)
Article 9(2)(f)(1) of the General Data Protection Regulation (sensitive personal data)
Article 10 of the General Data Protection Regulation (convictions and violations of the law)
Section 11(1) of the Danish Data Protection Act (civil registration no.)
The Danish Act on Employees’ Guarantee Fund (Lov om Lønmodtagernes Garantifond)
Article 45(1) of the General Data Protection Regulation (transfers to safe non-EU/EEA countries)
Article 46(2)(a) of the General Data Protection Regulation (transfers to an unsafe non-EU/EEA country)
Article 49(1)(e) of the General Data Protection Regulation (transfers take place for legal compliance reasons)
You can read more in:
Danish Act on the Employees’ Guarantee Fund (LG)
(new window - in Danish)
The General Data Protection Regulation
(new window - in Danish)
The Danish Data Protection Act (PDF)
(new window - in Danish)