URL: https://lifeindenmark.borger.dk/working/health-and-safety-at-work-/industrial-injuries/accidents-at-work-and-occupational-diseases

Accidents at work and occupational diseases
An industrial injury is an accident or disease caused by the work or working conditions
View your industrial injury case
Read more and self-services
View your industrial injury case (Se Sag)
Start
Start View your industrial injury case (Se Sag)
What is an industrial injury?
An industrial injury is an accident or disease caused by the work or working conditions. It may be caused by a fall at the workplace where you break your leg, a back injury sustained due to heavy lifting, eczema due to an allergic reaction to substances in the working environment, a severe mental strain etc.
If you have been injured in connection with your work, this will be reported by your employer to the employer's insurance company or by your GP to Arbejdsmarkedets Erhvervssikring (AES).
Your accident can be recognised as an industrial injury if:
the accident happened because of
your job function or the conditions in which your worked
you have suffered a physical or
mental injury which has caused permanent or passing discomfort
the discomfort you have is a result
of the injury you got following your accident.
Your disease can be recognised as an industrial injury if:
the disease is on the list of occupational diseases
it can be documented that the disease has been caused by your work.
If your disease is recognised as an occupational disease, you may be entitled to compensation.
Read more about industrial injuries
Who reports an industrial injury?
In the vast majority of cases, you do not need to do anything in order for the industrial injury to be reported.
Who reports an accident
If you have
suffered an accident at work it is your employer’s duty to report the incident.
Your employer must report the
accident within 14 days of your first day off work due to the injury, provided
the injury has caused you to be unable to work. This also applies if you, for a
limited time, were tasked with doing something that normally is not part of your
job.
Your employer must also report the
accident even if you could continue your normal work assignments, provided the
incident could make you eligible for compensation following § 11 in
‘arbejdsskadesikringsloven’. Compensation can take the form of coverage of
expenses for treatment or aids your need as a result of the accident (e.g.
chiropractor, physiotherapy or crutches/hearing aides) which are eligible
following the law.
Usually
your employer's insurance company will handle your case.
The
insurance company will gather additional information about the accident and
your injury. They assess if they can handle the case themselves, and if not,
will forward it to Labour Market Insurance for further case management.
Who reports a disease
Your employer does not have a duty to report occupational diseases. If you have a disease that may have been caused by your work, your GP or specialist reports this to Labour Market Insurance (AES).
What you should do
It is
important that you give your employer as correct and specific information about
the accident as possible and that you draw attention to any mistakes in the
report.
Keep an eye on whether you receive a receipt letter from AES in your Digital Post about your injury being reported to AES.
You
can also keep an eye on Se Sag and see if the report has been registered with
AES.
View your industrial injury case (Se Sag)
If
your employer does not report the injury to their insurance company, you can
report it to AES yourself. It might be
because your employer does not want to report the accident, because they no
longer exist or have gone bankrupt.
Report a work accident as a victim
How does an industrial injury case proceed?
After the report
When
your employer reports an accident, it is your employer’s insurance company
that will be the first to process the case. The insurance company will gather
information about the accident and the injury you have sustained. The
insurance company processes the less serious accidents and therefore it is
not all accidents that are sent to Labour Market Insurance (AES). When the
insurance company has information on the accident, it will assess whether the
case should be processed by AES.
When
your doctor or medical specialist reports a disease, AES will receive the report
directly from the doctor. AES will then begin collecting information on your
disease in order to assess whether it can be recognised as an industrial
injury.
AES processes and decides
upon the case
When
your accident or illness is registered in AES, you will receive a receipt
letter that lets you know that AES is processing your case.
When
AES processes the case, they will collect and assess all of the relevant
information in your case. You will get questionnaires to fill out about your
case and send to AES. You may also be asked to go to the doctor and get a medical
certificate filled out. AES works together with doctors, insurance companies,
municipalities, labour unions and attorneys to collect information to ensure
the best possible knowledge about your injury and your situation.
AES
decides whether the industrial injury can be recognised based on the
provisions of the law and whether a person is entitled to compensation for permanent
injury and loss of earning capacity.
Even
though you have been injured or gotten ill, your case can still be rejected.
This does not mean that AES does not believe that you are injured or ill. It
only means that your claim does not meet the requirements in the Danish
Workers’ Compensation Act.
Quick overview - The most important steps
If
you do not want an industrial injury
case to be processed by AES
You or your representative can say 'no' to AES processing or collecting
information on your case. For example, if an employer has reported an
accident at work but you have not been hurt and therefore you do not want AES to process the case. Once
your case has been received by AES, they will wait 7 days before beginning to process it. You have 7 days to let AES know that you do not want them to
process or collect information on your case. You
or your representative can
also at any time ask AES to stop the processing of
your case.
My obligations and rights
Access
to case information
As
the injured person, you are a legal part of the case and may at any time during the case receive a copy of the
information that Labour
Market Insurance (AES) has on the case.
You
can also keep an eye on your case via Se Sag. Here you can also give others
access to view your case.
View your industrial injury case (Se Sag)
Questions
and medical examinations
In order for AES to investigate your case as thoroughly as possible, it is
important that you respond to the questions and attend the medical
examinations AES asks you to.
You
can get your necessary expenses covered when AES sends you to examinations.
Covering of expenses
Do
you have new information on your case?
If you have additional information for your
case that you wish to submit to AES, you can ask to have the case postponed
while you get the information. AES will typically postpone the case for 14
days before making a decision.
You
can at any time ask AES to stop processing your case. AES just needs to be
notified in writing.
Before
AES makes a decision on the case, they will send you copies of the information
that is significant in making a decision and which they believe you are not
already aware of. AES will at the same time ask you to comment on the
information.
If
AES has used one of their medical consultants when assessing your case, you can ask to see the statement
from the medical consultant after the decision has been made.
Postpone
the deadline for responding
If you need more time to respond to a letter
from AES, you can extend the deadline in Se Sag.
View your industrial injury case (Se Sag)
Options for
appealing
You can make a complaint on AES's decisions and
the case processing.
How to make a complaint
Resumption
If there is something new in your case, you can ask to have it resumed.
Resumption
Who can help me with my industrial injury case?
You can provide a power of
attorney
You
can give a power of attorney to someone who is helping you with your
industrial injury case. For example, your trade union or an attorney who can
help you with advice or assist you in filling out forms.
You can fill in and send a power of attorney in Se Sag
Labour Market Insurance (AES) does not cover any
potential expenses you have for unions, attorneys or others who are assisting
you.
Changes
to or revoking a power of attorney
If
you wish to revoke a power of attorney, you must notify AES in writing.
If
you wish to grant a power of attorney to someone else, you must send in a new
power of attorney. At the same time you also need to ask to get the old power of attorney revoked.
If
you wish to change the rights given to your power of attorney, you must send
in a new power of attorney letter.
Who can complain about the decision?
Once
your case has been closed, multiple parties can appeal the decision:
yourself
your employer
Labour Market
Insurance Claims Review (AESK)
the
employer’s insurance company
If a
party makes a complaint about the industrial injury decision, your payment will
be postponed until the complaint has been processed. Please note that your
payment is not postponed if you are the one appealing a decision.
Do you want to appeal the
decision concerning your case?
If
you disagree with the decision concerning your case, you can appeal it and send
a complaint to Labour Market Insurance (AES). If AES cannot agree with your
complaint, it will be sent to the National Social Appeals Board
(Ankestyrelsen) for processing. The deadline for appealing is 4 weeks after you have received your decision.
How to make a complaint
Who will pay my compensation?
Depending
on your type of industrial injury, it varies who pays your compensation.
Payment in the event of
occupational diseases
If
your industrial injury is an occupational
disease, Labour Market Insurance (AES) will pay your compensation. Once your
case has been decided on, AES has 5 weeks to pay your compensation. AES will
pay the sum into your NemKonto as
soon as possible.
NemKonto
Payment in the event of an
accident at work
If
your industrial injury is an accident at work, it is your employer’s insurance
company that pays the compensation to your NemKonto.
This will normally take place no later than 5 weeks after the decision has
been made. If this does not happen, you are entitled to interests from the insurance company.
NemKonto
If
you wish to know more about the payment of your compensation for an accident at
work, you can contact your employer’s insurance company.
Who can complain about the decision?
Once
your case has been closed, multiple parties can appeal the decision:
yourself
your employer
Labour Market
Insurance Claims Review (AESK)
the
employer’s insurance company
If a
party makes a complaint about the industrial injury decision, your payment will
be postponed until the complaint has been processed. Please note that your
payment is not postponed if you are the one appealing a decision.
Do you want to appeal the
decision concerning your case?
If
you disagree with the decision concerning your case, you can appeal it and send
a complaint to Labour Market Insurance (AES). If AES cannot agree with your
complaint, it will be sent to the National Social Appeals Board
(Ankestyrelsen) for processing. The deadline for appealing is 4 weeks after you have received your decision.
How to make a complaint
How can I get my case resumed?
You can have a decision resumed if new information
appears for the case. For example, if your injury turns out to be more serious
or if your employment situation changes after you have received a final
decision.
Different rules apply for resumption depending on what
part of your case you want resumed. The three main areas are:
cases that have previously been rejected
questions about compensation
errors or deficiencies in a decision.
Read more about the opportunities for resumption.
Resumption
Who is Labour Market Insurance (AES)
Labour
Market Insurance (AES) is part of the ATP Group. Every year, AES processes
around 60,000 cases in which people have been injured at work or fallen ill on account of
their jobs. In addition, AES pays compensation to Danish residents for recognised
occupational diseases and collects AES contributions via Samlet Betaling (a
joint payment solution from employers)
Samlet Betaling
About AES
Legislation
Legislation
Publications
Please see also
AES for businesses
Social security and workers' compensation
Contact
Contact AES
Telephone: +45 48 20 58 40
Telephone hours:
Monday: 09:00 - 15:00
Tuesday - Friday: 09:00 - 12:00
Closed on public holidays, Friday after the Danish holiday Kr. Himmelfart, 5 June and 24 and 31 December.
Contact Labour Market Insurance (AES):
Email:
aes@atp.dk
Address:
Arbejdsmarkedets Erhvervssikring (Labour Market Insurance)
Kongens Vænge 8
DK-3400 Hillerød
Go to aes.dk for more contact information
Contact Labour Market Insurance, Payment (AESU):
Send message
Written by Labour Market Insurance (AES)
Contact
Labour Market
Insurance (AES)
Telephone: +45 72 20 60 00
Monday: 09:00 - 15:00
Tuesday - Friday: 09:00 - 12:00
Closed on public holidays, Friday after the Danish holiday Kr. Himmelfart, 5 June and 24 and 31 December.
Email:
aes@atp.dk
Last updated: 02 January 2025
A part of
Your Europe
Information services survey