URL: https://lifeindenmark.borger.dk/working/health-and-safety-at-work-/industrial-injuries/payment-of-compensation-for-occupational-diseases

Payment of compensation for occupational diseases
Here you can read about receiving compensation for occupational diseases
Read more and self-services
When is the compensation paid out?
When
Labour Market Insurance (AES) has decided on your case and your compensation,
it will normally take four weeks before your compensation is paid.
Your compensation may be
postponed if a complaint is submitted
If
your employer or Labour Market Insurance Claims Review (AESK) appeals our
decision, the payment will be postponed for as long as the complaint is
processed. If you yourself submit a complaint, it has no impact on the payment
of your compensation.
Regardless
of who appeals, it may mean that your compensation will be unchanged, larger,
smaller or cancelled entirely. If AES does not change its decision, the
complaint will be processed by the National Social Appeals Board
(Ankestyrelsen).
If
AESK has appealed a decision in your case and you have questions for them, you
can find their contact details here:
Contact AESK (in Danish)
Your compensation may be delayed
if you are receiving a social benefit
Your
payment may be delayed and potentially reduced if you are receiving a social
benefit in Denmark. This is because Labour Market Insurance, Payment (AESU)
waits for a response from the municipality or Udbetaling Danmark. If, for
example, you are getting rehabilitation benefits from the municipality or a
disability pension from Udbetaling Danmark, you may have to repay some of your
benefit.
You can contact Udbetaling Danmark or your municipality for further
information.
How do I protect the payment from creditors?
Labour
Market Insurance, Payment (AESU) generally transfers your compensation to
your NemKonto, but your NemKonto is not
protected against creditors.
NemKonto
If
you wish to protect your compensation from claims arising from, for example,
a divorce or creditors, you must have a protected account that your
compensation can be transferred to.
If
you want the money paid to another account, then you must within 10 day of
receiving the decision notify us via the contact box on this page. You must
use the link at the bottom of the page - 'Send message to Labour Market Insurance, Payment (AESU)'.
If
you do not have MitID, you must use the link 'Send message to Labour Market Insurance, Payment (AESU)' and attach picture ID in the form of
either a passport or driver’s licence. This link must also be used by
attorneys, unions, etc. who have a power of attorney for this case.
MitID
If
you want more information about what it means to have a protected account,
you must ask your bank.
You can lose the protection of your compensation
If
you use your compensation as collateral for, for example, a loan from the
bank or transfer other amounts to the protected account, your compensation
will no longer be protected against creditors.
Do I need to pay tax on my compensation?
Generally
speaking, you are liable for Danish taxes. For some citizens of foreign
countries, however, it is possible to be exempt from paying taxes in Denmark.
If you want to be exempt from paying taxes, you must contact the Danish Tax
Agency.
Danish Tax Agency
If
you are liable for taxes in Denmark, the amount of taxation depends on how
your compensation is paid. An ongoing benefit for loss of earning capacity is
taxable, but a lump sum compensation is not.
Labour
Market Insurance (AES) will report your compensation to the Danish Tax
Agency. Your compensation will be reported in the year that you have received
it. You must ask your local tax office yourself to distribute your
compensation over the relevant years.
If you have a Danish tax
card, you will be taxed based on that, and if not, you will be taxed 55 per
cent.
Is my lump sum tax free?
The
amount will not be taxed if you are awarded a tax free lump sum.
If,
however, you are paid a total sum of monthly taxable benefits for a period
going back in time, you must pay taxes on the amount. This could be if your
case has been decided upon and you are owed monthly benefits. In that case,
the money will be paid all at once even if it consists of a number of monthly
payments that you need to pay tax on.
Can
I retroactively adjust my taxes?
If you want to retroactively adjust your taxes, you must
contact the Danish Tax Agency to get it changed. If you do not take any
action, it will automatically be adjusted in the next annual tax return.
When do I get my expenses covered?
If
your disease has been recognised as an industrial injury, you can apply to
get the expenses covered you have incurred while Labour Market Insurance
(AES) has been processing your case. For example, this applies to expenses
for medication, treatment and transport.
If
you have not yet received a decision on your case, you must save your
bills/invoices for medication, treatment and transport. You may be able to
get those covered if your disease is later recognised as an industrial
injury. There are certain expenses that you can get paid even if your case is
not yet decided upon. This applies to examinations that AES has referred you
to.
Medication and treatment
As
a general rule, it is only subsidised medication and treatments that you can
get covered. For example, you can get treatment from a chiropractor or
physiotherapist if you have been referred to such treatments from your
doctor. Treatments at private hospitals and alternative medical treatments
are not covered.
If
you are a member of the health insurance "danmark",
AES will deduct your subsidy from the payment.
Health insurance "danmark"
The
health insurance "danmark" is a private insurance that gives subsidies to
different kinds of treatments and medication. Everyone who has a Danish
registered address can become a member of "danmark".
Travel expenses
AES
pays expenses for public transport based on the cheapest mode of
transportation. If you drive your own car, it is paid according to the lowest
state kilometre allowance.
If
AES has referred you to an examination far away from your home, you can apply
for payment for some of your expenses for staying at, for example, a hostel,
hotel, etc. and for food and drink. You cannot get expenses covered for your
wife or travel companion, etc.
Apply for payment for treatment and travel expenses while the case is being processed
Lost earnings
If
you have had salary deductions of at least two hours in order to go to an
examination, you can apply for reimbursement for this. AES covers the
entirety or part of your salary loss. When we have received your application,
we will calculate how much you can get covered. The money will then be
transferred to your NemKonto.
NemKonto
Apply for payment for lost earnings
If your case is rejected
You
can get your expenses covered for transport, overnight stays, food and lost
earnings in connection with the examinations that AES has referred you to if
your case is rejected.
On
AES’ website, you can find the rates for
how the maximum amounts that you can be paid for your expenses.
Read more about payment for expenses
What you need to be aware of when applying
for getting expenses covered
Make sure to read page
1 on the “Important information before filling out your application”
form.
If relevant, put
receipts, bills, etc. in order by date. That makes it faster to process
your application.
Write clearly on the
documentation which case and what the treatment concerns. For example,
if you have had physiotherapy it must be written on the invoice where on
the body you have received treatment.
Can I get future expenses covered?
Your
disease must be recognised as an industrial injury before you can apply to
have future expenses covered. As a general rule, it is only subsidised
medication and treatments that you can get covered. If the treatment qualifies
for subsidies, you will pay a part of the amount yourself and the state will
pay the rest. Expenses for treatments at private hospitals or from alternative
medical treatments are not covered.
If
you are a member of the health insurance "danmark",
AES will deduct your subsidy from the payment.
Health insurance "danmark"
The
health insurance "danmark" is a private insurance that gives subsidies to
different kinds of treatments and medication. Everyone who has a Danish
registered address can become a member of "danmark".
Read more about getting future expenses covered
What
do I need to be aware of when I apply?
Make sure
that you and your doctor have completed the entire application form
If relevant, put
paid receipts, bills, etc. in order based on date
Write clearly
on the documentation what case the treatment concerns
Apply for payment of future treatment expenses
What should I do if I move abroad?
If
you move abroad, your payment from Labour Market Insurance (AES) will continue.
Once per year you will be sent a ‘proof of life’ certificate (leveattest) which
you must complete to continue to get your compensation.
It
is very important that you use the certificate that we send you electronically
or via regular post, as the certificate has a bar code with your personal
information.
Please
note that the form can be sent from both Udbetaling Danmark, International
Pension or AES. This is because we work together allowing us to only have to
send one certificate.
Information for banks
When
a Danish resident is paid compensation for an occupational disease pursuant to
the Danish Workers’ Compensation Act, it is possible to protect this
compensation from creditors. A compensation from AES is personal and cannot be
transferred to others. Creditors can also not make claims against or take any
other kind of legal action against it.
In
order to ensure that the compensation is protected from creditors when it is
paid out, the recipient must have the bank:
create a
separate account
register that
the amount is protected from creditors
Written by Labour Market Insurance, Payment (AESU)
Contact
Labour Market
Insurance, Payment (AESU)
Telephone: +45 70 10 58 40
Monday: 09:00 - 15:00
Tuesday - Friday: 09:00 - 12:00
Closed on public holidays, Friday after the Danish holiday Kr. Himmelfart, 5 June and 24 and 31 December.
Send message to Labour Market Insurance, Payment (AESU)
Last updated: 02 January 2025
A part of
Your Europe
Information services survey