URL: https://lifeindenmark.borger.dk/pension/atp-livslang-pension/read-more-about-supp

Read more about SUPP
Read more and self-services
How much must I contribute to SUPP?
When you make contributions to SUPP, you will receive an extra monthly payment when you become an old-age pensioner. You will pay 1/3 of the contribution while the state will pay 2/3. Your share is DKK 205 (2025) per month and the state's share is DKK 410 (2025) per month.
There will be deducted 8 per cent in social security contributions to the Danish Tax Agency because the pension is considered equivalent to a labour market pension. If your disability pension is less than your share of the payment to SUPP, you cannot pay SUPP contributions.
SUPP may impact your payments from the public sector
When you make payments to SUPP, it may impact other benefits that you receive. For example, it might impact rent subsidies.
Before you reach the state retirement age, the amount that you pay to SUPP is deducted from your personal income. This may mean that, for example, you can get more in rent subsidies because our income will be less.
When you reach the state retirement age, you will be paid your pension from SUPP and, as a result, your personal income will increase. For some, this might result in them receiving less in rent subsidies.
You are welcome to contact Udbetaling Danmark - Public Benefits Administration by calling +45 70 12 80 61 if you have any questions about what this might mean for you.
When can I start receiving SUPP payments?
You can receive your SUPP pension
payments once you reach the state retirement age. This also applies if, for
example, you have a life-threatening illness.
Read more about SUPP in the event of death in the article 'What happens to my SUPP when I die?'.
The state pension age depends on when you were born and the payment is determined by the state retirement
age.
How much can I receive?
If your SUPP is administered by ATP, then here you can read more about how much you can expect to receive. The size of your pension depends on how long you make contributions
Below you can see how much you can expect to receive in relation to when you started making contributions:
Contribution made from age
Expected Annual Lifelong Pension
Retirement age
20
DKK   51.700
69
30
DKK   32.000
69
40
DKK   18.600
69
50
DKK     9.400
69
60
DKK     3.100
68
The amounts are before tax. They are shown in contemporary kroner, i.e. what the amounts are today.
What happens to my SUPP when I die?
In the event of death, a lump sum can be paid out. The
money is paid to the estate via the deceased's NemKonto.
Please note that a 40 per cent tax is deducted for the
Danish state before the money is paid out.
In case of death prior to the Danish retirement age
The lump sum will correspond to 75 per cent of your
total contributions to SUPP and is increased by an interest rate each year.
The lump sum can never be less than your total savings
per 31 December 2012.
In case of death after the Danish retirement age
The lump sum will correspond to 50 per cent of your
total contributions to SUPP and is increased by an interest rate each year.
The lump sum is gradually reduced from the time you
reach the Danish retirement age and five years onwards. This means, that there
will no longer be paid a lump sum if you die more than five years after you
have reached the Danish retirement age.
If your SUPP is administered by ATP
In 2013, your SUPP savings were transferred to ATP Livslang Pension. You will therefore not have to pay separately for the costs of investment and the administration of two different schemes. Instead, it is ATP Livslang Pension and SUPP's shared reserves that cover all costs.
Death insurance
When you die, the estate may be entitled to a lump sum from ATP.
If you make contributions to SUPP, part of the amount goes to an insurance in the event of death. For 2024, it has been, calculated that the expenses for this insurance amount to 11 per cent of the contributions.
Legislation for the supplementary Labour Market Pension Scheme fo Disability Pensioners (SUPP)
Here you can read more about the legislation for SUPP.The legal rules for SUPP is to find in.
Bekendtgørelse af lov om Arbejdsmarkedets Tillægspension § 17 r (Danish)
Written by ATP Livslang Pension
Contact SUPP
See contact information