URL: https://lifeindenmark.borger.dk/working/work-rights/bankruptcy-and-cessation-of-operations/payment-in-the-event-of-bankruptcy/LG-bankruptcy-payment

What does LG pay in the event of bankruptcy?
Read more and self-services
What does LG pay?
Wages, holiday allowance or pension* for the work you have performed.
Wages, holiday allowance or pension* during your notice period.
Pension* for previous periods.
Payment for Sundays and public holidays.
Supplements (company car/phone, bonus, free choice wage account, piecework profits etc.).
*You should be aware that the delayed payment of your pension may matter if your pension plan also includes insurance cover, which is normally paid through your pension.
LG encourages you to contact your pension provider, so you know what to do in this situation.
What does LG not pay?
Mileage allowance, subsistence allowances and entertainment expenses.
Costs which should have been reimbursed by your employer.
Compensation for lack of employment certificate.
Expenses if you have filed for bankruptcy.
G-days (first to third day of unemployment).
Non-competition clauses.
If you disagree or want to complain
The Employees' Guarantee Fund (LG) ensures that employees receive wages etc. when their employer is declared bankrupt or ceases operations. LG can also help the employer to pay wages to employees working for the company, while it is subject to financial reconstruction.
If you do not agree with LG's decision
The legislation to which LG is subject falls within the Danish Ministry of Employment, but you cannot complain about the decision to the Ministry. If you do not agree with LG's decision, you are welcome to contact us and possibly send further documentation supporting your claim. LG will review your case and send you a new decision.
If you still do not believe that our decision is correct, you will have to initiate legal proceedings against LG at the courts. LG has no appeals board, and therefore the case can only continue at the courts. In this case, you must contact the court in Hillerød.
Contact the customer ambassador
If you are dissatisfied with the service you received from LG, you can contact ATP's customer ambassador:
ATP's customer ambassador
Legislation
View laws and executive orders