URL: https://lifeindenmark.borger.dk/healthcare/health-insurance/purchase-of-public-healthcare-services-in-denmark

Purchase of public healthcare services in Denmark
You may purchase healthcare services in Denmark if you have a public health insurance in another Member State
Choose your local municipality in order to see information and online services that apply to you
Read more and self-services
Purchase of hospital treatment
If you are covered by the public health insurance scheme in another EU country, Norway, Iceland or Liechtenstein, the public hospitals in Denmark can offer you treatment against payment.
However, a referral from a general practitioner (GP), specialist or another health professional is required. A GP or a health professional in your home country or another EU country, Norway, Iceland or Liechtenstein can issue the referral.
In some cases, it is required that the referral is issued by a specialist in a particular field. Ask the hospital whether the treatment you are seeking requires a referral from a specialist.
After the receipt of your referral, the hospital are required to inform you within 8 weekdays of the date and place of your examination or treatment.
The regional authorities are responsible for the public hospitals in Denmark.
You can find the public hospitals in Denmark on the websites of the 5 regions:
Region Nordjylland (North Denmark Region)
Region Midtjylland (Central Denmark Region) (in Danish)
Region Syddanmark (Region of Southern Denmark) (in Danish)
Region Hovedstaden (Capital Region of Denmark)
Region Sjælland (Region Zealand) (in Danish)
Please note that the hospital may refuse to accept you due to lack of capacity, for instance if they have a long waiting time for the treatment you require. If the hospital refuses to accept you due to lack of capacity, they must inform you within 8 weekdays.
Information on waiting times at the public hospitals in Denmark (in Danish)
Access to other public healthcare services in Denmark
The Danish regions and the municipalities offer a number of public healthcare services against payment, for instance:
Consultations and treatments by family doctors (GPs, general practitioners) and other specialists
General dental care for children and young adults up to the age of 18 or specialised dental care for children and young adults with special dental issues
Municipal-based physiotherapy (subject to referral by a GP)
Rehabilitation after discharge from the hospital, provided a doctor has assessed that rehabilitation is required.
Please note that there may be limited access to regional or municipal healthcare services due to lack of capacity, for instance if they have a long waiting list and your treatment will result in the postponement of other patients.
What is the price of my treatment?
Regional and municipal healthcare services must be provided on the same terms and at the same costs as for Danish insured citizens.
The healthcare provider, such as the hospital, clinic or other medical establishments, must inform you of the price for your treatment, before the treatment takes place. Payment will be charged in connection with or immediately after you have received the treatment. If you need an interpreter, you may be charged a fee for the interpreter assistance. You may also be asked to pay a deposit for the treatment.
The patient advisers in the regional National Contact Points can provide information on the price for the specific treatment, you need.
The Danish National Contact Points
How to organise your treatment
If you wish to receive planned treatment in Denmark, you will have to make the arrangements yourself, including finding a Danish healthcare provider, who offer the treatment, you need, and has the capacity to receive you.
You may be asked to provide documentation about your public health insurance cover, for instance by presenting a valid European Health Insurance Card.
The regional National Contact Point in the Danish region where you are considering treatment, can give you information on your options and rights as a patient in Denmark.
The Danish National Contact Points
Legislation
Directive 2011/24/EU on the application of patients’ rights in cross-border healthcare
Consolidated Health Act No. 903 of 26 August 2019 (in Danish)
Executive Order No 657 of 28 June 2019 on the right to hospital treatment (in Danish)
Executive Order No. 1658 of 27 December 2013 on access to non-hospital municipal and regional healthcare services to persons from other EU/EEA countries, the Faroe Islands and Greenland (in Danish)
Written by The Danish Patient Safety Authority – EU Health Insurance
Last updated: 09 August 2024
A part of
Your Europe
Information services survey
Last updated: 09 August 2024