URL: https://lifeindenmark.borger.dk/working/work-rights/unpaid-wages-when-posted-to-denmark

Unpaid wages when posted to Denmark
You can recover unpaid wages if you have not received wages from your employer
Read more and self-services
When can I get help?
If you are a posted worker and have unpaid wages from your employer, The Danish Labour Market Fund for Posted Workers can recover unpaid wages for you. In addition to your wages, you can, for example, recover holiday pay and pension.
You can recover unpaid wages when:
Your work is covered by a collective agreement
Your wages have been determined by the Danish Labour Court
Your employer is registered as a company in an EU/EEA country
You as a posted worker have tried, in vain, to have the wages paid out by your employer following the consideration of the case by the Danish Labour Court
Your claim for unpaid wages has not become time-barred. Claims for unpaid wages are generally time-barred five years after your wages should have been paid.
Unless you include a tax exemption certificate with your claim form, The Danish Labour Market Fund for Posted Workers will withhold Danish tax from the amount paid to you.
How to report a claim
What do I need to report a claim?
When reporting a claim for unpaid wages, you must include documentation. The documentation you need to include with your claim is a copy of:
The judgment or decision of the Danish Labour Court, stating your name and your unpaid wages
The request for payment concerning your unpaid wages sent to your employer and the employer’s contact person in Denmark
Your employment contract
Your posting agreement
Your passport or national ID-card, if you do not have a Danish CPR no. (civil registration number)
Your tax exemption certificate, if you are exempt from paying Danish tax on your wages.
If you have already received part of your unpaid wages from your employer, you must also include documentation for the amount you have received.
Your tax identification number/Tax identification number (TIN number). The TIN number is issued by the tax authorities in your country of residence.
Get help from your trade union
You can contact the trade union conducting your case and ask for their help in reporting your claim. This requires that you authorize (grant power of attorney to) the trade union to report the claim on your behalf.
AFU is obliged to protect you against information about your identity being disclosed to unauthorised persons without your consent. In the form you can voluntarily consent to AFU exchanging information about your identity with, e.g. with your employer.
However, in order to process your salary claim, AFU must exchange information with the Danish Tax Agency about your tax information, the amount paid and any tax withheld, etc. You must therefore consent to the fund exchanging information about your identity with the Danish Tax Agency. The fund cannot process your salary claim if you have not given your consent.
If you are disabled, you may have difficulties filling in the form. We are working on making the form accessible. Please contact AFU for more information.
Download form to grant power of attorney (pdf)
When you grant power of attorney to your trade union, they act on your behalf in the case. This means that if you have any questions or comments regarding your case, you must contact your trade union, which will contact The Danish Labour Market Fund for Posted Workers.
Report your claim on your own
You can report your claim for unpaid wages on your own. You can do so by completing a claim form.
AFU is obliged to protect you against information about your identity being disclosed to unauthorised persons without your consent. In the form you can voluntarily consent to AFU exchanging information about your identity with, e.g. with your employer.
However, in order to process your salary claim, AFU must exchange information with the Danish Tax Agency about your tax information, the amount paid and any tax withheld, etc. You must therefore consent to the fund exchanging information about your identity with the Danish Tax Agency. The fund cannot process your salary claim if you have not given your consent.
If you are disabled, you may have difficulties filling in the form. We are working on making the form accessible. Please contact AFU for more information.
Report a claim for unpaid wages
When you have completed the claim form, you must print and sign the form. When you have signed the claim form, you can send the form and documentation to The Danish Labour Market Fund for Posted Workers:
The Danish Labour Market Fund for Posted Workers
Kongens Vænge 8
DK-3400 Hillerød.
You can also send your claim and documentation by e-mail:
Send a message to The Danish Labour Market Fund for Posted Workers
When is the deadline for reporting my claim?
You must report your claim for unpaid wages to The Danish Labour Market Fund for Posted Workers within four months. The four-month deadline starts from:
the date your claim for unpaid wages was established by judgement in the Danish Labour Court, or
the date the settlement between you and your employer was confirmed by the Danish Labour Court.
The Danish Labour Market Fund for Posted Workers can grant an exemption from the four-month deadline, if there is special circumstances.
When will my case be processed?
When The Danish Labour Market Fund for Posted Workers has received your claim, we will usually pay out the money within two months. If information or documentation is missing, it may take longer.
The processing time is used, among other things, to determine whether all necessary information has been included. Then The Danish Labour Market Fund for Posted Workers contacts your employer, who has four weeks to document whether he has already paid you the money. At the end of the four-week period, The Danish Labour Market Fund for Posted Workers will settle the amount and pay out the money.
When will I receive my wages?
Your employer has four weeks to pay your unpaid wages. If your employer does not pay within the four-week period, The Danish Labour Market Fund for Posted Workers usually pays out your wages within two months of receiving your claim.
Your unpaid wages will be paid into the bank account stated in your claim. If you have a Danish NemKonto (automatically assigned personal bank account), your wages will be paid into this bank account. If you have issued a power of attorney to your trade union, The Danish Labour Market Fund for Posted Workers will pay the money to them.
Tax
When The Danish Labour Market Fund for Posted Workers pays you unpaid wages, your current tax card is used to calculate how much tax you have to pay in Denmark. If you do not have a tax card, The Danish Labour Market Fund for Posted Workers will deduct 8% in labour market contribution and 55% in Danish income tax from the amount paid to you.
If you include a tax exemption certificate with your claim form, The Danish Labour Market Fund for Posted Workers will not deduct tax from your pay. The Danish Labour Market Fund for Posted Workers will instead inform the Danish Tax Agency in Denmark that you are exempt from paying Danish tax. Instead you become tax liable in your home country.
About The Danish Labour Market Fund for Posted Workers
The Danish Labour Market Fund for Posted Workers will ensure that you as a posted worker can recover unpaid wages if your employer does not pay you what you are owed. In addition to your wages, you can, for example, recover holiday pay and pension.
You can report your claim for wages on your own to The Danish Labour Market Fund for Posted Workers, or you can ask the trade union conducting your case to help you. When you or your trade union report your claim for unpaid wages, The Danish Labour Market Fund for Posted Workers is responsible for getting your employer to pay.
Read the rules on The Danish Labour Market Fund for Posted Workers:
The Danish Act on the Danish Labour Market Fund for Posted Workers (in Danish)
Legislation
Lovbekendtgørelse nr. 916 af 23. juni 2024 om Arbejdsmarkedets Fond for Udstationerede
Bekendtgørelse om størrelsen af det ordinære bidrag til Arbejdsmarkedets Fond for Udstationerede i 2024, nr. 1598 af 12/12/2023
Bekendtgørelsen om Arbejdsmarkedets Fond for Udstationerede, nr. 301 af 21/03/2024
(The Executive Order on the Danish Labour Market Fund for Posted Workers).
See how the Danish Labour Market Fund for Posted Workers processes your personal data
Contact
If your trade union has reported your claim, you must contact your trade union for information on the case. If you have reported your claim on your own, you can contact The Danish Labour Market Fund for Posted Workers on telephone +45 70 11 40 20.
Office hours:
Monday to Thursday: 08.00 – 16.00
Friday: 08.00 – 15.30
Closed on public holidays, the Friday after Ascension Day, June 5th, and from December 24th to 31st inclusive.
If you do not agree with the decision
If you do not agree with a decision made by The Danish Labour Market Fund for Posted Workers, or if you have any questions regarding the decision, you can call The Danish Labour Market Fund for Posted Workers on telephone +45 70 11 40 20.
Alternatively, you can appeal to the Appeals Board for ATP. The Appeals Board for ATP must receive your appeal within four weeks from the day you received the letter with the decision made by The Danish Labour Market Fund for Posted Workers. The address of the Appeals Board for ATP is:
Appeals Board for ATP
Holmens Kanal 20
DK-1060 Copenhagen K.
You can read more about The Danish Labour Market Fund for Posted Workers at Virk:
The Danish Labour Market Fund for Posted Workers at Virk
Contact the customer ambassador
If you are dissatisfied with the service you received from The Danish Labour Market Fund for Posted Workers, you can contact ATP’s customer ambassador:
ATP's customer ambassador
Written by The Danish Labour Market Fund for Posted Workers
Contact 'The Danish Labour Market Fund for Posted Workers'
A part of
Your Europe
Information services survey
Last updated: 19 December 2024