URL: https://lifeindenmark.borger.dk/travel-and-transport/motor-vehicles/temporary-or-permanent-import-of-a-motor-vehicle

Temporary or permanent import of a motor vehicle
Registration tax must be paid on all cars and other motor vehicles in Denmark
Choose your local municipality in order to see information and online services that apply to you
Read more and self-services
Taxes on cars
All cars, motorcycles and other motor vehicles must normally be registered in the Register of Motor Vehicles (Motorregistret). In most cases, tax (registration tax) must be paid before the car is registered.
In addition, either vehicle weight tax or green vehicle tax must be paid on a regular basis.
If you move to Denmark and have a car with foreign number plates, you must register the car in Denmark no later than 30 days after moving here.
Taxes on vehicles
Temporary stay in Denmark
If you stay in Denmark for less than 185 days within a period of 12 months, you may drive a car with foreign number plates without paying Danish registration tax.
Instead, you must pay the tax in your country of residence.
Non-Danish vehicles
Importing cars
You must normally pay registration tax on imported cars and motorcycles – both new and used. This applies irrespective of whether the vehicle comes from an EU country or elsewhere.
Importing vehicles
Number plates
All motor vehicles must normally be registered and have Danish number plates. This also applies to some mopeds and most tractors.
It is normally the dealer who obtains the number plates for new cars (new from the factory).
You can buy number plates for used vehicles from a number plate provider or from one of the offices of the Danish Motor Vehicle Agency.
If the rear number plate is completely or partially covered – for example if you are transporting a bicycle – you must have an extra number plate to display at the rear. This third number plate has red letters and numbers.
Number plates for individuals
Third number plate
Registration certificate
You must always have a registration certificate (Danish or foreign) when you own a vehicle.
If you do not have a registration certificate, you cannot obtain number plates or change the owner of the vehicle.
Registration certificate
Deregistering vehicles
You can deregister
your vehicle by handing in the number plates to a number plate provider or to
one of the offices of the Danish Motor Vehicle Agency.
The police can
confiscate number plates if:
the vehicle
weight tax has not been paid on time
the insurance lapses
the
vehicle fails an inspection
If you leave the
country and deregister from the Civil Registration System (CPR), you need to
deregister your vehicle as well.
If you export and
deregister your vehicle, you can apply for a refund of the registration tax.
You do this by registering the vehicle for export.
Deregistering and handing in number plates
Exporting vehicles
Appeals
If you disagree with a decision by the Danish Motor Vehicle Agency or the way the case was processed, you can make an appeal:
How to appeal: Information about the appeal process at the Tax Appeals Agency
Appeals against a decision on vehicle valuation
Legislation
The Danish Registration Tax Act (in Danish)
The Danish Consolidation Act on Vehicle Registration (in Danish)
The Danish Executive Order on Vehicle Registration (in Danish)
Please see also
The Danish Motor Vehicle Agency
Written by the Danish Motor Vehicle Agency
Last updated: 07 August 2024
A part of
Your Europe
Information services survey