URL: https://lifeindenmark.borger.dk/school-and-education/student-finance/student-debt/if-you-ve-received-more-su-than-you-are-entitled-to

If you’ve received more SU than you are entitled to
Have you received more SU than you are entitled to? On this page you can read how you can pay it back and much more.
See what you owe and adjust your payment if necessary.
When you've received more SU than you are entitled to
Have you received a letter stating that you need to pay SU back?
When you have received more SU than you are entitled to, you must repay the excess amount. The Danish Agency for Higher Education and Science (Uddannelses- og Forskningsstyrelsen) is the entity that send you a letter regarding this matter. However, you are obliged to repay the amount to Udbetaling Danmark.
There can be various reasons for receiving more SU than you are entitled to. For example, it may be due to you:
Earning too much income while receiving SU.
Completing or discontinuing your education.
Changing your field of study.
Receiving the SU rate for living away from home while you are living at home.
Being in paid internship as part of your education.
You can find more information on su.dk.
Whom should you contact if you have questions?
When you have received more SU than you are entitled to, it is the Danish Agency for Higher Education and Science that will send you the initial invoice. However, you will repay the amount to Udbetaling Danmark.
If you have questions about why you have received more than you are entitled to, you should contact your educational institution.
Find contact information for your educational institution (in Danish)
Please contact Udbetaling Danmark if you have any questions about the repayment.
Contact Udbetaling Danmark, Student debt
Paying back: Getting started
Get started
The Danish Agency for Higher Education and Science will send you a letter if have received more SU than you are entitled to.
There are two ways to pay back the amount:
You can repay all or a portion of the amount, and no interest will accrue until you initiate a payment plan. The payment plan will automatically commence 2 to 3 months after you receive the letter. You can make payments through the "Your student debt" self-service solution by clicking "Start" at the top of this page. Alternatively, you can pay the full amount using the payment information provided in the letter from the Danish Agency for Higher Education and Science.
If you do not make a full payment within 2 to 3 months after receiving the letter, Udbetaling Danmark will automatically set up a payment plan for you.
You can make payments through Betalingsservice, MobilePay, or credit/debit card.
You must repay the amount within 3 years
If you do not pay back the full amount at once, Udbetaling Danmark will automatically set up a payment plan for you. This means you will have to make monthly installments until the entire amount is settled. However, you must pay a minimum 200 DKK per month.
The payment must be completed within a maximum of 3 years, regardless of the total amount you owe.
You can see an overview of your monthly installments in our self-service solution "Your student debt". To do so, simply click "Start" at the top of this page.
You cannot consolidate your SU debt with your SU loan
Excess student grants must be repaid within 3 years, whereas you have 7 to 15 years to repay your student loan. Therefore, it is not possible to consolidate these two types of debts.
If you have questions
If you believe that you have not received more SU than you are entitled to, please contact the Danish Agency for Higher Education and Science.
Contact the Danish Agency for Higher Education and Science
The Danish Agency for Higher Education and Science is responsible for making decisions regarding excess student grants, while Udbetaling Danmark is only responsible for collection. Therefore, Udbetaling Danmark cannot answer questions regarding your debt.
If you have difficulties with making payments
Here are your options
You have 3 options if you have difficulties making payments during a given period:
Postpone your payment: You can postpone your payment for up to 1 year. This applies regardless of the size of the debt, as to much received SU must be repaid within 3 years. You can do this in the self-service solution "Your student debt" by clicking the "Start" button at the top of this page.
Reduce your installment: You can apply to have your installment reduced for a period. You can do this by contacting Udbetaling Danmark.
Extend payment period: You can apply to extend the payment period. However, there are certain conditions that need to be met.
What you need to know if you want to apply to have your payment period extended
There are conditions that you must meet to apply for an extension of your payment. You must eighter:
Have a reduced work capacity
Receive early retirement pension
Have a flexi-job (fleksjob in Danish)
Be enrolled in a resource clarification (ressourceforløb in Danish)
You do not have the option to extend your payment period if, for example, you have a low income, are repaying multiple loans simultaneously, or are affected by inflation or rising interest rates.
What happens if you don't make any payments?
If you fail to make timely payments, Udbetaling Danmark will send you 2 reminders. For each reminder, you will be charged an additional fee. If payment is still not received, your loan will be terminated, and both your payments and the interest will be higher. After that, Udbetaling Danmark will transfer your debt to the Gældsstyrelsen (Danish Debt Collection Agency) for further collection.
Interests and fees
The interest rate is 10.75 percent
From the moment you receive the letter from The Danish Agency for Higher Education and Science, there is a 2-month grace period before interest starts accruing on the amount you owe. If you repay your debt within those 2 months, the amount of interest you'll be responsible for will be lower. Therefore, it's a good idea to pay off as much as possible before the interest starts adding up on the owed amount.
The interest rate on too much received SU is currently 10.75 percent.
The interest rate is set twice a year, on January 1st and July 1st, and is compounded monthly.
You can check the interest rate on the amount you need to pay back at any time using our self-service solution "Your student debt". To do so, simply click "Start" at the top of this page.
The interest rate affects your monthly payment
Every time the interest rate decreases, your monthly payment also decreases. This is because the interest rate is part of the total monthly payment you have to make. When the interest rate falls, you pay less in interest each month, resulting in a lower overall monthly payment.
Conversely, every time the interest rate increases, your monthly payment also increases. When the interest rate rises, you pay more in interest each month, resulting in a higher overall monthly payment.
Interest rates over time
Here, you can find a comprehensive overview of both current and historical interest rates.
Fees
In certain situations, you are required to pay fees to Udbetaling Danmark:
Fee for using Betalingsservice or another payment method, per regular invoice: 14 DKK.
Reminder fee for late payment: 141 DKK.
Termination of the repayment agreement: 389 DKK.
Pay with Betalingsservice, Mobilepay or your debit card
Betalingsservice: Sign up for automatic payment
You can
sign up for automatic payments through Betalingsservice. When you pay through
Betalingsservice, you ensure that you pay on time and avoid reminder fees.
You need to
follow 3 steps if you wish to pay with Betalingssevice:
Go
to:
Sign up for automatic payment through Betalingsservice
Enter
your CPR-number, registration number, account number, and customer number.
Confirm
with MitID.
Once the
registration is approved, you can view it under your payment agreements in your
online banking.
Mobilepay and debit card
You can
repay your student debt with a credit card or MobilePay by logging into the
self-service solution, which you can access by clicking "Start" at
the top of this page.
You can
choose to make individual installments, pay an optional amount, or settle the
entire debt.
Payment when you live abroad
If you reside abroad and need to repay SU, you must make sure that your payment covers the amount you owe in Danish kroner.
You are responsible for ensuring that the installments are paid on time, meaning the amount must be received by Udbetaling Danmark no later than the 8th of the month.
The costs associated with the transfer from abroad, incurred by your bank, postal services, and Danske Bank, are your responsibility. Therefore, the total costs should be added to the installment you are paying.
Payment with payment slips
If you live abroad, you will not receive payment slips. If you have a Danish online banking account, you can enroll your payment through Betalingsservice. You will find the information your bank needs by logging into the self-service solution, which you can access by clicking "Start" at the top of this page.
Do you have a Danish online banking account?
If you have a Danish online banking account, you can enroll your payment through Betalingsservice.
How to set up a direct debit with Betalingsservice (pdf)
Payment via a transfer from a foreign financial institution
BIC/SWIFT address: DABADKKK
IBAN number: DK33 0216 4069 1613 59 -
This IBAN can only be used for payment of too much recieved SU.
See IBAN number for SU loan.
Danske Bank A/S, Bernstorffsgade 40, 1577 Copenhagen V
The transfer must be made in Danish kroner.
Your CPR number should be provided as a reference for all payments; otherwise, Udbetaling Danmark won't be able to identify that the payment is from you. You are responsible for covering the costs associated with the transfer.
Other subjects
Power of attorney if you need to help someone else
If someone else is going to contact Udbetaling Danmark on your behalf, you first need to provide that person with a power of attorney. This also applies even if you are cohabiting and the other person just needs to speak to Udbetaling Danmark about the case.
If you are contacting Udbetaling Danmark on behalf of someone else, you first need to have a power of attorney.
For those of you who will be helping someone else
If the person who wants to provide you with a power of attorney does not have MitID, you can use a written power of attorney. The form can be filled out on the screen or by hand, and it needs to be signed by the person giving you the power of attorney.
If you have a written letter of attorney from someone with student loan, you can send the signed letter of attorney digitally. If you are using a mobile phone, you can take a picture of the letter of attorney and attach it. The power of attorney does not provide access to digital self-service functions.
Power of attorney
You can send the form by post to Udbetaling Danmark, Kongens Vænge 8, 3400 Hillerød. Please note that it may take up to a week before Udbetaling Danmark receives the letter of attorney by post.
Calling on someone else’s behalf
If you need to call Udbetaling Danmark on behalf of someone who has recieved more SU than they are entitled to, the person can give you power of attorney over the phone. This also applies if you live apart.
If you are together
The person on whose behalf you are calling can give you the power of attorney at the beginning of your call, if the two of you are together.
Call Udbetaling Danmark, Student Debt
Type the CPR number (Civil Registration Number) of the person on whose behalf you are calling
Tell the employee why you are calling, and that the person is with you
The employee will then ask to talk to the person.
If the two of you are not together
If you do not have the opportunity to be together during the phone conversation, the person you need to help can first call Udbetaling Danmark and give you the power of attorney. Then you can call and discuss the matter.
The person on whose behalf you are calling on, must call Udbetaling Danmark before you call
He or she must tell the employee that you must have a power of attorney
The employee will send a written confirmation
You can then call Udbetaling Danmark and discuss the matter
Remember to enter the CPR number of the person on whose behalf you are calling on.
If you want to file a complaint
If you do not agree with the amount you are required to pay is correct please contact:
Contact the Danish Agency for Higher Education and Science
If you
are dissatisfied or would like to file a complaint about the repayment plan
If you are
unhappy with the amount you must pay, the duration of the repayment, fees, or
similar issues, please feel free to contact Udbetaling Danmark.
If you
disagree with a decision regarding your repayment plan, you have the option to
file a complaint. Udbetaling Danmark must receive your complaint no later than
4 weeks after you have received the decision.
Legislation
The SU law (in Danish)
Written by Udbetaling Danmark
Contact Udbetaling Danmark, Student Debt
Contact Udbetaling Danmark, Student Debt
Last updated: 02 May 2025