URL: https://lifeindenmark.borger.dk/pension/partial-pension

Partial pension
Partial pension is a financial compensation if you want to reduce your working hours without leaving the labour market altogether
Read more and self-services
What is partial pension?
Partial pension (Delpension) is a financial compensation for you if you want to reduce your working hours without leaving the labour market altogether.
Can I get partial pension?
You can get partial pension if you:
were born before 1959
live and work in Denmark or on a Danish ship
have reached an age at which you are eligible for partial pension
have not received or are not entitled to receive a labour market exit benefit certificate
have had your pension assets calculated.
If you are a salaried employee/wage earner
If you are a salaried employee/wage earner, you must meet certain requirements in order to get partial pension. Before you go on partial pension:
You must have worked an average of 30 hours per week for 18 months within the past 24 months. The work must have been performed in Denmark or on a Danish ship.
You must have paid full ATP Livslang Pension contributions for at least 10 years within the past 20 years.
When you go on partial pension:
You must reduce your working hours by at least 7 hours a week, or by at least one quarter of the time you have worked on average per week in the past 9 months before you went on partial pension.
You must work between 12 and 30 hours per week on average.
You must work at least 20 days each quarter.
If you are self-employed
If you are self-employed, you must meet certain requirements in order to get partial pension. Before you go on partial pension:
You must have worked full-time in the past 5 years in Denmark or on a Danish ship.
You must have operated an independent business for at least 4 out of the past 5 years, and for at least 9 out of the past 12 months.
A considerable part of your income in 4 of the past 5 years must be the result of your own work.
Your income must have been at least DKK 66.732 before tax (2024) / DKK 69.148 before tax (2025) for the past year before you get partial pension.
When you go on partial pension:
You must reduce your average working hours from full-time (37 hours per week) to half time (18.5 hours per week).
Written by Udbetaling Danmark
Contact Udbetaling Danmark, Delpension
Contact Udbetaling Danmark, Delpension
Last updated: 21 January 2025