URL: https://lifeindenmark.borger.dk/housing-and-moving/buying/energy-performance-certification-of-buildings

Energy performance certification of buildings
The energy performance certification gives an overview of the building's energy consumption
Choose your local municipality in order to see information and online services that apply to you
Read more and self-services
What is energy performance certification of buildings?
The energy performance certificate shows the building's energy performance and cost-effective recommendations for improvement of the energy performance of a building.
Energy performance certification is mandatory and required for:
sale and rental of buildings
new buildings
public buildings over 250 m2.
To issue an energy performance certificate, it requires an inspection of the building by an energy consultant from a certified company. The consultant assesses the building's energy performance and grades it on a scale from A to G.
The energy performance certificate also contains a description of the cost-effective recommendations for improvement of the energy performance of a building.
An energy performance certificate is valid for 10 years, unless significant changes are made to the building, which will affect the energy performance.
If the building is sold several times within the validity period, the same energy performance certificate may be used.
For further reading on energy performance certification of buildings and to find a certified company, see SparEnergi.dk, the Danish Energy Agency's website on energy with advice on energy-efficient solutions.
Energy performance certification of buildings at SparEnergi.dk (in Danish)
Finding an energy performance certificate of a building
You can search for information on energy performance certification for a particular building and download the energy performance certificate.
boligejer.dk – find energimærkerapporter (in Danish)
Legislation
Law on the promotion of energy savings in buildings (in Danish)
Regulation on energy performance certification of buildings (in Danish)
Appeals
If you consider that there are errors in your energy performance certificate, you may make a complaint about the professional and quality elements of the energy performance certificate.
Who you should make a complaint to?
You should send your complaint to the certified company which drew up your energy performance certificate. The certified company is required to consider your complaint and send you a written response.
Time limit for making a complaint to the certified company
You may make a complaint to the certified company up to 1 year after the energy performance certificate was drawn up. If, after the energy performance certificate was drawn up, the building passes to a new owner, the new owner may make a complaint to the certified company up to 1 year after the date on which the building was taken over.
If the energy performance certificate is over 6 years old, it is no longer possible to make a complaint.
Making a complaint about the certified company's decision
You may make a complaint about the certified company's decision to the Danish Energy Agency if your complaint is not upheld.
The Danish Energy Agency rules on complaints about professional and quality elements concerning the energy performance certificate carried out by certified companies.
Time limit for making a complaint to the Danish Energy Agency
You must approach the Danish Energy Agency no later than 4 weeks after you received the decision from the certified company.
The decision of the Danish Energy Agency may be appealed before the Energy Board of Appeal.
For further reading on making a complaint and finding forms for registering your complaint, see the Danish Energy Agency's website
The Danish Energy Agency's website (in Danish)
Please see also
The Danish Energy Agency's website
SparEnergi.dk (in Danish)
Written by the Danish Energy Agency
Last updated: 04 April 2024
A part of
Your Europe
Information services survey