URL: https://lifeindenmark.borger.dk/healthcare/medical-treatment/treatment-in-private-hospitals-and-clinics-in-denmark-

Treatment in private hospitals and clinics in Denmark
Treatment in private hospitals and clinics is offered in various places in Denmark
Choose your local municipality in order to see information and online services that apply to you
Read more and self-services
Purchase treatment in private hospitals
There are several private hospitals in Denmark. Treatment in private hospitals must be provided at the same price and on the same terms as apply for Danish patients in a similar situation.
For information about the types of treatment the different hospitals offer, you must contact the hospital directly.
On the Danish website sundhed.dk you can find contact information for private hospitals in Denmark.
Find private hospitals on sundhed.dk (in Danish)
Treatment in private clinics
A number of licensed Danish healthcare professionals offer examinations and treatments, for instance general practitioners (GPs), specialists, dentists, physiotherapists, chiropractors etc. These healthcare professionals are mainly occupied in private medical establishments.
In order to receive planned treatment in a private clinic/medical establishment in Denmark you will have to contact the individual healthcare professional or clinic directly and inquire about the terms for the examination or treatment you need.
Treatment provided by private healthcare providers must be offered at the same price and on the same terms as apply for Danish patients in a similar situation.
On the Danish website sundhed.dk you can find contact information for healthcare professionals ('Behandlere').
Find a healthcare provider and hospitals – sundhed.dk (in Danish)
How do I know if a healthcare professional is registered in Denmark?
All healthcare professionals, who are licensed to work in Denmark, are registered in an online register. In the register you can check the registration status of a given healthcare professional at the date and time of the search.
You can access the online register on the website of the Danish Patient Safety Authority.
Online register – Healthcare Professionals
Legislation
Directive 2011/24/EU on the application of patients’ rights in cross-border healthcare
Law on health (in Danish)
Consolidated Authorisation Act (in Danish)
Written by The Danish Patient Safety Authority – EU Health Insurance
Last updated: 01 August 2024
A part of
Your Europe
Information services survey