URL: https://lifeindenmark.borger.dk/working/the-danish-tax-system/rules-on-double-taxation-

Rules on double taxation
The rules on how to pay the correct tax on your income when you have ties to more than one country
Choose your local municipality in order to see information and online services that apply to you
Read more and self-services
The Danish global income principle
When you are subject to full liability to Denmark, you are obliged to report all your income and tax deductions – both from Denmark and abroad – to the Danish tax authorities.
In Denmark, a so-called global income principle applies, according to which income is taxed even if it comes from outside Denmark.
The principle may result in the same income being taxed both in Denmark and abroad.
You report your non-Danish income and deductions at www.skat.dk/english. Here you log on via the self-service system E-tax (TastSelv) by clicking ‘Log on for individuals’ and using your MitID. Select ‘Change your tax assessment notice/tax return'. Here you report your non-Danish income.
You can also fill in and submit form 04.011 EN (Tax return for foreign business income) and form 04.012 EN (Tax return for foreign income), which you find at www.skat.dk/forms.
Danish Tax Agency
E-tax
(please note that the tax assessment notice (årsopgørelsen) as well as contact and payment information is available in English)
Forms at the Danish Tax Agency
Tax return for non-Danish business income
Tax return for non-Danish income
The Danish double taxation agreements
To prevent that you as a taxpayer pay tax twice on the same income, Denmark has entered into double taxation agreements with a number of countries.
To determine how a given income should be taxed, it is necessary to read the specific double taxation agreement between Denmark and the country in question.
Read more about the individual double taxation agreements on the website of the Danish Ministry of Taxation. Please note that not all the agreements are available in English.
A double taxation agreement is divided into different types of income which are taxed in different ways. The areas covered by the double taxation agreement include taxation of business profits, permanent establishment, income from real property, earned income, pension, including returns on foreign pension schemes, interest, dividends, capital gains, etc.
The above examples of income types are not exhaustive so you have to review the specific double taxation agreement to determine which of the 2 countries has the right to tax a given income or asset.
Read more about the individual double taxation agreements on the website of the Danish Ministry of Taxation (in Danish)
Appeals
You may appeal against your assessed income and tax deductions as well as your tax assessment to the Danish tax authorities.
If you disagree with a decision by the Danish tax authorities, you may appeal to the Danish Tax Appeals Agency (Skatteankestyrelsen) within 3 months from when the decision of the Danish Tax Agency (Skattestyrelsen) was made.
An appeal fee is payable when you make an appeal.
How to appeal: Information about the appeal process at the Tax Appeals Agency
Written by the Danish Tax Agency
Last updated: 03 April 2024
A part of
Your Europe
Information services survey