URL: https://lifeindenmark.borger.dk/working/holiday-allowance-ny/holiday-allowance/loenmodtagernes-feriemidler-faq

Lønmodtagernes feriemidler faq
Read more and self-services
When do I get my savings paid out?
You will automatically have your savings paid out when:
you reach the state retirement age. However, you can choose to postpone the payment.
you have accrued under DKK 1,500 in total holiday pay in the transition year.
At the earliest, you can have the savings paid out from 1 October 2021.
There will be more information about when and how you can apply here on this page.
I have moved abroad and I need to order holiday pay for the transition year – when can I do this?
If you move abroad on a long term basis, you can apply for your savings during the summer of 2021.
The savings will be paid out in October 2021.
I do not have NemID and I cannot apply digitally – how do I apply to have the savings paid out?
You can apply to have the savings paid out via a form that will be available during 2021.
There will be more information about when and how you can apply here on this page.
I do not have NemKonto in Denmark – can the savings be paid out to an international account?
Yes, Lønmodtagernes Feriemidler can also make payments to an international account. You must notify Lønmodtagernes Feriemidler of the account that you wish the savings to be paid out to.
In order for Lønmodtagernes Feriemidler to pay out the savings to an international account you have to sign the account information and send us a copy of your passport, driving licence or other ID with a photo and a signature in it.
What happens to my savings if I die?
If you die before having your savings paid out, it will be paid out to your dependants.
Can I monitor my savings?
Yes. You can monitor the status of your savings on borger.dk.
Please note that the amount stated may either be before or after tax.
See your savings at Lønmodtagernes Feriemidler (in Danish)
How do I verify that the correct amount is in my savings?
You will receive a letter from Lønmodtagernes Feriemidler at the beginning of 2021. Here you can see what your employer has reported to your savings for the transition year.
Your employer must report 12.5 per cent of your holiday-entitled pay. For example, this is hourly wages, permanent supplements and overtime pay. Salary during illness or maternity/paternity leave also counts as salary.
If the right amount is not stated in your savings, you must contact your employer.
Can I pay more into the savings myself?
No, you cannot pay more into the savings yourself. The holiday pay that you earn during the transition year will be converted into savings with Lønmodtagernes Feriemidler.
Your employer is responsible for reporting and paying your holiday pay to your savings account.
I cannot see my savings?
There are different deadlines for when employers need to transfer holiday pay. This might be the reason why you cannot yet see your holiday pay at borger.dk.
If you cannot see your holiday pay on borger.dk, you must contact your employer.
How are the savings invested?
The saved holiday pay is placed in the Lønmodtagernes Feriemidler fund, which is managed by LD Fonde. Each year, your savings will be adjusted. The adjustment may be positive or negative, depending on the overall result of the fund’s investments.
The regulation is calculated once per year by Lønmodtagernes Feriemidler.
Written by Lønmodtagernes Feriemidler