URL: https://lifeindenmark.borger.dk/pension/share-your-atp-information

Share your ATP information
You can share your ATP information with a company via ATP's self-service
Share your ATP Information
Read more and self-services
Share your ATP information
Start
Start Share your ATP information
In ATP's self-service, you can share information about contributions to your ATP Livslang Pension.
There can be various situations where you might need to share your ATP information. For example, it could be part of a background check in connection with your employment or other case processing that requires documentation.
In the self-service, you can choose the company or the public authority you want to share information with by entering their CVR number.
Click 'Start' to log in to the self-service.
Who can you share your ATP information with?
You can share your ATP information via ATP's self-service with
most Danish companies and public authorities.
Which ATP information can you share?
When you share your ATP information with a company or a public authority via ATP's self-service, you give them permission to see:
When and how much you and your employers have contributed to your ATP Livslang Pension.
When and how much other entities such as the municipality, the state, or your unemployment insurance fund have contributed to your ATP Livslang Pension.
You choose the period for which you want to share information. For example, you can choose to share information that goes back 1 or 3 years.
Legal Notices
:
You cannot edit the data you share via ATP's self-service.
ATP merely provides the self-service and assumes no responsibility for how companies or public authorities use the information you share with them.
ATP does not guarantee the accuracy or completeness of the information shared via the self-service. It is your responsibility to check the information before sharing it.
ATP information provides insight into your employment history
ATP is a statutory pension scheme where you, your employer, the municipality, the state, or your unemployment insurance fund can continuously contribute to your pension if certain conditions are met. When you share information about your contributions to ATP Livslang Pension, you provide the recipient with insight into your employment history.
How can you share your ATP information?
You can share your ATP information via ATP's self-service by following these 4 steps:
Log in to ATP's self-service. You will need MitID to log in.
Enter the company's or the public authority´s  CVR number.
Choose how many years of ATP information you want to share.
Click "Confirm and share". Your information will then be accessible to the company or the public authority.
When you have shared your information, a receipt will be sent to your Digital Post, where you can see which information you have shared.
Stop sharing your ATP information
You can stop sharing your ATP information with a company or a public authority via ATP's self-service at any time. Note that if the company or the public authority has already retrieved your information, they may still have access to it in their own systems, even after you stop sharing via ATP's self-service. You will therefore have to contact the company or the public authority if you want them to delete your information.
Processing of your personal data
You can read about how ATP Livslang Pension processes your personal data via the link below.
How ATP processes your personal data
Would you like to know more?
ATP livslang Pension
Read more about ATP livslang Pension
ATP Livslang Pension
Legislation
Read more about the legislation for ATP
Bekendtgørelse af lov om Arbejdsmarkeds Tillægspension.
Legal Notices
ATP merely provides the self-service and assumes no responsibility for how companies or public authorities use the information you share with them.
ATP does not guarantee the accuracy or completeness of the information shared via the self-service.It is your responsibility to verify the information before sharing it.
Last updated: 25 March 2025