URL: https://lifeindenmark.borger.dk/working/social-security-cover

Social security cover when working abroad
In some situations you may stay covered by the Social Security System in Denmark while working
abroad
Read more and self-services
Apply for the A1 certificate
As an employee, you can apply for Danish Social Security if you will be working abroad.
Apply for the A1 certificate - with MitID
Apply for social security - with eID
Connect your non-Danish electronic ID (eID)
You can connect your Danish Civil Registration Number (CPR number) with your national electronic ID from an EU/EEA country (eID)
Connect your non-Danish eID to your Danish Civil Registration Number
Not possible to apply via the self-service form?
Apply for social security when working abroad - non-digital
Social Security Cover in another EU/EEA country, Switzerland or the United Kingdom
If you are
an employee or a self-employed professional working for a Danish company, you
can work temporarily in another EU/EEA country, Switzerland and/or the United Kingdom but
remain covered by the Social Security System in Denmark.
The Social Security System
in Denmark
The
Danish Social Security System consists of services and benefits that provide
economic security such as health insurance, family benefits, pension,
unemployment benefits, daily sick pay, ATP (Danish labour market supplementary
pension) and industrial injury insurance.
If You do not have a MitID or eID:
Apply for social security when working abroad
How do I stay covered by the Social Security System in Denmark while working abroad?
To remain
covered by the Social Security System in Denmark while working in another EU/EEA
country, Switzerland and/or the United Kingdom, you or your employer need to apply for the A1 certificate.
The certificate
proves that you pay social contributions in Denmark.
You
must present the A1 certificate to the authorities at any time during your
posting abroad. As long as you have a valid A1 certificate, the authorities in
your host country must recognize it.
Who can obtain the A1 certificate?
Following
employees or self-employed professionals can obtain the A1 certificate:
Employees and self-employed
professionals who are posted to another EU/EEA country, Switzerland and/or the United Kingdom for
up to 24 months.
Employees and self-employed
professionals who are posted to another EU/EEA country, Switzerland and/or the United Kingdom for
longer than 24 months, but no longer than 36 months.
Employees and self-employed
professionals working in several EU/EEA countries, Switzerland and/or the United Kingdom.
Employees and self-employed
professionals who are posted to countries outside the EU/EEA countries which
Denmark has made individual agreements with.
Postings longer than 24 months
If your postings to another EU/EEA country, Switzerland or the United Kingdom is longer than 24 months, you or your employer may request an extension for one extra year to the validity of your A1 certificate. This is subject to the mutual agreement between the authorities in your home and host countries. Please note that postings to the United Kingdom can only be for a maximum of 24 months under the Trade and Cooperation Agreement between EU and UK.
If you are an employee posted abroad by a Danish company
When posted
abroad, you and your employer must meet several requirements to make sure you
stay covered by the Danish Social Security System after you move to your new
EU/EEA country.
For
example:
You and your Danish employer do not expect your
posting to be longer that 24 months. If you do, you must state it in your
application.
You work for a Danish employer in another EU/EEA
country, Switzerland or the United Kingdom.
You have been covered by the Danish Social Security
before your posting – for example if you live and have been working in Denmark
before your posting.
You have been covered by Social Security in Denmark
before employment, if it was already agreed upon employment that you will be
working in another EU/EEA country, Switzerland or the United Kingdom.
Your employer has extensive activity in Denmark and
employs its employees in Denmark.
If you are an employee working in more than one EU/EEA country, Switzerland or the United Kingdom
You are
working in more than one EU/EEA country if you, for example, work with
international transport or go on business trips.
If you live in Demark and work in several EU/EEA
countries, Switzerland or the United Kingdom and 25 per cent of you work is performed in Denmark,
then you are covered by Danish Social Security. In this case, it does not
matter if you work for a Danish or a foreign employer, nor how many employers
you have.
If you live in Denmark and work in several EU/EEA
countries, Switzerland or the United Kingdom and less than 25 per cent of your work is performed in
Denmark, then you are covered by Danish Social Security when you:
Work
for one or several Danish employers – or
Work
for more than two employers and at least two of them are domiciled in other
EU/EEA countries (not including Denmark) e.g. if you work for a Norwegian and
Swedish employer at the same time. The same applies if, for example, one
employer is domiciled in Switzerland or the United Kingdom and the other employer is domiciled in a
different EU/EEA country (not including Denmark).
If you do
not live in Denmark and work in several EU/EEA countries and less than 25
per cent of your work is performed in Denmark, you will be covered by Danish Social
security when you:
Are
only employed by a Danish employer – or
Are
employed by a Danish employer but have another job with another employer in your
country of residence.
If you work
for a Danish employer in more than two EU/EEA countries, Switzerland or the United Kingdom, you
must contact the social authorities of the country in which you live.
The social
authorities there must decide whether you should be socially secured in the
country you live in.
If you are self-employed posted worker
If you are
self-employed you must request an A1 certificate to make sure you stay covered
by Danish social security.
To be
eligible for the form, you must meet several requirements and prove that the
activities you intend to pursue abroad are like those you pursued in Denmark.
For
example:
You do not expect your posting to be longer that 24
months. If you do, you must state it in your application.
You run an extensive business in Denmark.
You have been running your business for at least two
months prior to posting.
You work in the same industry during your posting.
During your posting, you continue to maintain all that
is necessary to run your business when you return to Denmark – e.g. a
requirement might be that you still have an office in Denmark, pay taxes in
Denmark, retain a licence to run a business in Denmark or continue to be VAT
registered during your posting.
If you are self-employed working in more than one EU/EEA country, Switzerland or the United Kingdom
If you are self-employed, live in Denmark, work in
more than two EU/EEA countries, Switzerland or the United Kingdom and perform at least 25 percent
of your work in Denmark then you are covered by Danish social security.
Before issuing the A1 form to you, Udbetaling Danmark
will have to review your business performance based on working hours, turnover,
the number of services provided and revenue.
It is not a requirement that you work in the same
industry in the different countries that you are working in.
When can I expect to receive my A1 certificate
In the chart below you can see the case processing time limits:
This table shows the varying case processing time limits.
Case processing time limits vary according to the situations below
INDICATIVE CASE PROCESSING TIME LIMITS
If you are posted to one
country
5 weeks
If you are working in
two or more countries
3 weeks
For special social
security agreements
24 weeks
The case processing time limit period begins the same day Udbetaling
Danmark receives your application.
You can help ensure that your application is processed as soon as possible
by:
Attaching
the required documentation
Ensuring
that your information in the Civil Registration System (CPR) is correct.
If you want to file a complaint
If you are
not satisfied with how Udbetaling Danmark has dealt with your case, you are
welcome to contact Udbetaling Danmark, International Social Sikring. Sometimes
misunderstandings can occur and can easily be resolved with a verbal
explanation.
If you disagree with a
decision
You may file a complaint about a decision from Udbetaling Danmark if you
disagree with it. You will always receive a letter from Udbetaling Denmark, in
which the decision will be stated along with a complaint guide.
Udbetaling Danmark must receive your complaint no later than four weeks
after your receipt of the decision. They will then assess the matter again.
However, if you have received a preliminary decision, you can only file your
complaint when you receive the final decision.
If Udbetaling Danmark reject your complaint, they will forward it to the
National Social Appeals Board. The National Social Appeals Board is an
independent state institution and the highest complaint board for Udbetaling
Danmark amongst others.
Complaints about other matters
Udbetaling
Danmark will also consider complaints received about other matters in your case
and investigate whether there is anything that should have been done
differently. You will always receive an answer to your complaint.
How to file a complaint
You can
file a complaint by calling Udbetaling Danmark or sending your
complaint to Udbetaling Danmark, International Social Sikring, preferably
marked ‘Klage over social sikring’. Find contact information at the bottom of the
page.
How Udbetaling Danmark processes your personal data
When you contact Udbetaling Danmark, the
administration is obliged as a public authority to register and save your
personal data.
This Policy for protection of personal data
provides information on how Udbetaling Danmark handles your personal data and
your rights in relation to the same.
Read how Udbetaling Danmark processes your personal
data
Legislation
You can read more in
Vejledning om EF-regler om social sikring - Lovvalg (in Danish – new window)
Vejledning om EF-regler om social sikring -
Generel introduktion og fælles regler (in Danish – new window)
Forordning 883 om koordinering af de
sociale sikringsordninger (in Danish – new window)
EF-forordning 465/2012 - ændringer til
EF-forordningerne nr. 883/2004 og nr. 987/2009 (bijob og flyvende personale)
(pdf) (in Danish – nyt vindue)
Conventions and guidelines on social security (Konventioner og vejledninger om social sikring) (In Danish)
Written by Udbetaling Danmark
Contact Udbetaling Danmark, International Social Sikring
Contact Udbetaling Danmark, International Social Sikring
Last updated: 10 February 2025
A part of
Your Europe
Information services survey