URL: https://lifeindenmark.borger.dk/family-and-children/couples/when-you-divorce-or-separate/confirmation-clothing-allowance

Confirmation clothing allowance
You can apply digitally for a confirmation or clothing allowance when your child is between 13 and 15 years old
Choose your local municipality in order to see information and online services that apply to you
Read more and self-services
What is the confirmation / clothing allowance?
If you are not living together when your child is to be confirmed, the parent bearing the expense of the confirmation can get the other parent to cover parts of the confirmation expenses. If you are bearing the confirmation expense, you may be eligible to claim a confirmation / clothing allowance from the child’s other parent.
You can also apply for the allowance even if your child is not being confirmed.
The confirmation / clothing allowance is a single payment of DKK 4,257 (2025).
There are several criteria that determine eligibility for the allowance. You can read more about these on the Agency of Family Law’s website (in Danish).
You are not eligible to apply if one of the parents is deceased or if the child’s paternity has not been legally established.
Information on confirmation / clothing allowance – the Agency of Family Law (in Danish)
Apply for confirmation / clothing allowance
Start
Start Apply for a contribution in relation to confirmation or clothing contribution
You and the child’s other parent can also reach an agreement on a confirmation / clothing allowance. It is a good idea to have a written agreement.
The confirmation / clothing allowance is a single payment of DKK 4,257 (2025).
When you make your own agreement, there is no need to involve the Agency of Family Law.
If it is not possible to make an agreement, you can apply to the Agency of Family Law for a confirmation / clothing allowance. The Agency for Family Law will determine whether you are eligible for an allowance.
Information on confirmation / clothing allowance – the Agency of Family Law (in Danish)
Application deadlines
The confirmation allowance may be applied for at the earliest 3 months before the date of the confirmation and at the latest 1 day before.
The clothing allowance may be applied for at the earliest on the child’s 13th birthday and at the latest on the child’s 15th birthday.
What do I do if I haven't received my allowance?
If a confirmation/ clothing allowance approved by the Agency of Family Law is not paid on time, you can apply to Udbetaling Danmark to pay the amount.
Based on the decision reached by the Agency of Family Law, Udbetaling Danmark will be able to pay the amount in advance, in other words, before it has been paid by the payer of the allowance.
You can apply for payment of the confirmation / clothing allowance the day after you receive notification from the Agency of Family Law that the payment is to be made.
The same conditions apply for confirmation / clothing allowance paid in advance as for Child Allowance.
Child allowance
You must make your own claim for payment in advance of confirmation / clothing allowance.
Who should I contact if I have questions?
The Agency for Family Law determines and regulates special allowances, while Udbetaling Danmark deals with collection of special charges and possibly also in advance payments.
If you have questions about the decision regarding your allowance or the amount, please contact the Agency for Family Law.
Contact the Agency of Family Law
Appeals
If you disagree with the Agency for Family Law’s decision you may lodge an appeal. You will receive the appeals procedure with the decision.
The Agency for Family Law must receive your appeal at the latest 4 weeks after you receive the decision.
Legislation
Read more about the rules for special allowances.
Child Allowance Act (in Danish)
The Executive Order on Allowances (in Danish)
Income summary for the determination of child and spousal support in 2020 (in Danish)
Please see also
Guide: When you split up (in Danish)
Written by the Agency of Family Law
Last updated: 13 March 2025
A part of
Your Europe
Information services survey