URL: https://lifeindenmark.borger.dk/healthcare/health-insurance/health-insurance-card

Health insurance card
Most examinations and treatments are free, but you need to register and get a health insurance card
Choose your local municipality in order to see information and online services that apply to you
Read more and self-services
National healthcare
Denmark has an extensive public healthcare system that offers free consultation and treatment with your family doctor, at the emergency wards and at public hospitals.
If you work legally in Denmark, you are covered by the Danish health insurance system. Most examinations and treatments are free, but you need to register and get a health insurance card.
Children are covered by the health insurance scheme together with their parents until they reach the age of 15 and are insured independently of their parents.
Getting your health insurance card – 'the yellow card'
When you are covered by the national health insurance, you can register with a family doctor (GP, general practitioner) and receive a yellow health insurance card.
The health insurance card is documentation that you are entitled to the services offered under the national health insurance scheme.
Approximately 2 to 3 weeks after you have registered, your national health insurance card will be sent to your Danish address. The card will show your name and address, your CPR number and the name and address of your family doctor (GP).
It is advisable always to carry this card with you as it is required whenever you need to see your GP, a dentist or go to hospital – or when you want to take out books from the library.
The health insurance card app
It is also possible to get a digital version of the national health insurance card. The health insurance card app works the same way as the yellow plastic health insurance card and gives you the same benefits.
The app is called 'Sundhedskortet'. You can change language from Danish to English in the app.
Go to App Store or Google Play and search for ‘sundhedskortet’ to download the health insurance card app.
Order a new health insurance card
Start
Start Order a new health insurance card
Written by lifeindenmark.dk
Last updated: 06 June 2025