URL: https://lifeindenmark.borger.dk/travel-and-transport/motor-vehicles/purchase-and-sale-of-a-motor-vehicle

Purchase and sale of a motor vehicle
When you buy a used vehicle, you must change the owner in the Register of Motor Vehicles
Choose your local municipality in order to see information and online services that apply to you
Read more and self-services
Register of Motor Vehicles
Start
Start Registering and re-registering your vehicle
You can find information in the Register of Motor Vehicles (Motorregistret) on all vehicles registered in Denmark.
Among other things, you can use the Register of Motor Vehicles to:
ask the Motor Vehicle Agency (Motorstyrelsen) to determine the value of your vehicle in order to obtain Danish number plates and a Danish registration certificate for it
change owner information if you purchase a used car in Denmark.
How to proceed
Log in to the Register of Motor Vehicles:
Log in to TastSelv using MitID
Select Motor – Motorregistret
Request valuation:
Select Registreringsafgift (Registration tax) and then Anmod om værdifastsættelse (Request valuation)
Fill out the screen images and select Godkend (Approve)
You can see your receipt in your Meddelelsesarkiv (Notification archive).
Change information when changing ownership:
Select Registrering (Registration) and Privat ejer/brugerskifte (Private owner/user change). Then click Start ejer/brugerskifte (Start user/owner change).
Enter the registration or chassis number.
Open the vehicle with control number or code parts 1 and 2 from the registration certificate.
Add any other users or owners who have given their authorisation.
Select the insurance company and then Anmod om forsikring (Request insurance).
Select Godkend registrering (Approve registration).
Pay.
Select Videre (Continue) and print the receipt.
Go to the Register of Motor Vehicles (in Danish – new window)
Purchase and sale of used vehicles
If you buy a used vehicle with number plates, you as the new owner must change the owner of the vehicle in the Register of Motor Vehicles within 4 weekdays from the time of purchase.
If you buy a used vehicle that has been deregistered in the Register of Motor Vehicles, you must register it again within 4 weekdays.
If you sell a used vehicle, you should note that the new owner is required to change the owner of the vehicle in the Register of Motor Vehicles within 4 weekdays. If this is not done, you can ask the Danish Motor Vehicle Agency to deregister the vehicle.
Re-registration of vehicles
Check whether debt is owed on the vehicle
If you buy a used car, you should check whether debt is owed on the car. This is because the debt is transferred with the car to the new owner.
You can check on any debt in the Motor Vehicles Securities Register (Bilbogen).
You can call or write to the Motor Vehicles Securities Register:
Court of Land Registration – contact (in Danish)
Requirement for inspection when the owner changes
If the car is more than 4 years old, it must have been inspected within the last 2 years. Otherwise, you cannot change the vehicle owner until the vehicle has been inspected.
Find a vehicle inspection centre (in Danish)
Appeals
If you disagree with a decision by the Danish Motor Vehicle Agency or the way the case was processed, you can make an appeal:
How to appeal: Information about the appeal process at the Tax Appeals Agency
Appeals against a decision on vehicle valuation
Legislation
The Danish Consolidation Act on Vehicle Registration (in Danish)
The Danish Executive Order on Vehicle Registration (in Danish)
Please see also
The Danish Motor Vehicle Agency
Written by the Danish Motor Vehicle Agency
Last updated: 31 May 2024
A part of
Your Europe
Information services survey