URL: https://skat.dk/en-us/individuals/deductions-and-allowances/home-improvement-and-household-services/home-improvement-services

Skat
Skat
Log on as an individual with MitID
Log on with E-tax password
Authorised logon (for parents or advisors, etc.)
Order E-tax password
Please note that the tax assessment notice (årsopgørelsen) and your contact and payment information is now available in English at skat.dk/tastselv
.
Log on with MitID
Log on with E-tax password (TastSelv-kode)
Search
What are you looking for?
Don't enter personal information (such as your CPR no.). We save searches for statistical purposes to improve our search feature.
Read aloud
English
Dansk
Deutsch
Home improvement services
In 2025, the deduction for home improvement services is DKK 8,600 per person. Please note that you can only deduct the wage costs - not the materials used.
You can get a deduction for specific home or holiday home improvement services.
The value of the deduction is approx. 26%. If you have paid DKK 3,000 for a home improvement service, you save approx. DKK 780 in taxes.
Claim your deduction for home improvement services for 2025:
Log on to E-tax (TastSelv)
Select
Preliminary income assessment
Select
Home improvement services and Household services Håndværker og Servicefradrag
Claim your deduction in field 460
Home improvement services Håndværkerfradrag
Please note that you can't claim a deduction for home improvement services in your tax assessment notice for 2024, as the deduction was not re-introduced unti 1 January 2025.
Tax deductible home improvement services:
Insulation of roof and attic
Insulatoin of exterior walls, for example:
Insulation
Cavity wall insulation
Insulation of floors, for example:
Insulation of ground decks and crawl spaces underneath floors
Replacement of windows, panes and terrace glass doors, for example:
New windows and panes, new terrace doors and French windows mostly made of glass, double windows
Replacement of exterior doors, terrace doors, etc, for example:
New doors
Repair and improvement of chimney, such as:
Fitting of insulating lining
Fitting of filter
Fitting of smoke absorber
Change of chimney height in cases where the wood-burner/fireplace meets current requirements, see rules on the scrapping of old wood-burners/fireplaces
Removal of wood-burners:
Removal of existing wood-burners and fireplace inserts
Installation or improvement of certain drainage installations and systems, for example:
Sewer work on your own land
Replacement of sewer pipes
Establishing or replacing drains
Replacement of holding tank
Percolation plant
Micro water purification plant
Root zone treatment plant
Anti-flood valves
Rainwater drainage systems
Radon protection, for example:
•    Radon extraction and radon barrier
·    Work related to solar panels, domestic wind turbines, including the combination of a battery, for example:
Installation, repair or replacement of solar panels also when it involves a battery - but not if the rules for commercial business are applies
Installation, repair or replacement of domestic wind turbines - but not if the rules for commercial business are applied
Work on solar cells, for example:
Installation, repair or replacement of the entire solar cell system, including boilers.
Work on heating control systems, for example:
Installation, repair or replamenet of thermostatic radiator valves
Weather-compensated heating system
Timer control
Central heating pump
Work on systems for hydronic heating systems, for example:
Installation, repair or replacement of radiators
Underfloor heating hose and piping
Inspection of heating system
Work on district heating units, for example:
Installation, repair or replacement of district heating units, including boilers
Work on heat pumps, for example:
Installation, repair or replacement of heat pumps, including air-to-air heat pumps with or without cooling function, air-to-water heat pumps and ground (geothermal) to water including underground pipes and borehole
Work on electric water heater, for example:
Installation, repair or replacement of electric water heater
Installation, repair, replacement or improvement of ventilation, for example:
Balanced ventilation system with heat recovery
General conditions
You have to pay for the services by means of dankort, MobilePay or online banking (no cash)
Keep your documentation for work done
Read more about the conditions for the deduction for home improvement services.
Reintroduction to deduction for hompe improvement services
On 1 January 2025, the deduction for home improvement services was reintroduced. It was abolished on 1 April 2022.
You are not entitled to a deduction for home improvement services done in the period 1 April to 31 December 2024.
For further legal information in Danish see
our legal guide .
Do you have any other questions to this subject?
Call us
before
Kl.
17:00
72222795