URL: https://skat.dk/en-us/individuals/cross-border-tax-matters/you-live-in-denmark-and-have-non-danish-income/e-tax-and-non-danish-information

Skat
Skat
Log on as an individual with MitID
Log on with E-tax password
Authorised logon (for parents or advisors, etc.)
Order E-tax password
Please note that the tax assessment notice (årsopgørelsen) and your contact and payment information is now available in English at skat.dk/tastselv
.
Log on with MitID
Log on with E-tax password (TastSelv-kode)
Search
What are you looking for?
Don't enter personal information (such as your CPR no.). We save searches for statistical purposes to improve our search feature.
Read aloud
English
Dansk
Can I see non-Danish information in E-tax?
Here, you can see your non-Danish income in E-tax
Log on to
E-tax (our self-service system)
Click Skatteoplysninger (Tax information) > Indkomstår (Income year) > Udenlands indkomst (Non-Danish income) > Oplysninger modtaget fra udlandet (Information received from outside Denmark).
We regularly get information from non-Danish authorities and others about interest, dividends, salary, pension payments and income from property. If you log on to
E-tax
, you can see the specific information we have registered about you.
It's your responsibility to submit the correct information on time
As we get information on a regular basis and often from different income years, you can't be sure that all your non-Danish income is stated in E-tax when it's time to report the various information.
And please note that information is not automatically transferred from E-tax to your tax assessment notice/tax return.
As a result, you have to keep track of your non-Danish income and report the correct information in your tax assessment notice/tax return - even if that information still has to be registered in E-tax.
If your non-Danish income is regsitered in E-tax
Check if the information is correct
If you agree, you have to report the information in your tax return/tax assessment notice. Read more
Reporting non-Danish income
If you disagree, you have to:
ask the provider of information to correct the information for international tax authorities that submits information to us
enter the amount you believe to be correct in your tax return/tax assessment notice.
Do you have any other questions about this subject?
Call us
before
Kl.
17:00
72222795