URL: https://skat.dk/en-us/individuals/tax-card

Skat
Skat
Log on as an individual with MitID
Log on with E-tax password
Authorised logon (for parents or advisors, etc.)
Order E-tax password
Please note that the tax assessment notice (årsopgørelsen) and your contact and payment information is now available in English at skat.dk/tastselv
.
Log on with MitID
Log on with E-tax password (TastSelv-kode)
Search
What are you looking for?
Don't enter personal information (such as your CPR no.). We save searches for statistical purposes to improve our search feature.
Read aloud
English
Dansk
Deutsch
Tax card
Use the correct tax card to pay the right amount of tax
A tax card shows how much tax you will have to pay on your income. The actual tax rate depends on how much you earn a year and how many deductions you can get.
Your tax card is digital, and you find it at the top of your
preliminary income assessment (forskudsopgørelsen)
- which you find in our
self-service system E-tax (TastSelv)
.
If you don’t already have a tax card, you can read more about how to get one at
Get a tax card as a non-Danish employee.
Tax card is a generic term for tax exemption card (frikort), primary tax card (hovedkort) and secondary tax card (bikort).
When you live in Denmark you may earn a certain amount of money each year before you have to pay tax. If you earn less than this specific amount, a tax exemption card is the right tax card for you. If you earn more, a primary tax card or a secondary tax card is right for you.
See our guide below to find out which tax card is the right one for you.
What is a tax card?
Your tax card is a part of your preliminary income assessment stating your withholding rate. There are
3 types of tax cards
and they are used for different situations. See below when to use which card.
Primary tax card
Tax exemption card
Secondary tax card
Please be aware that your primary tax card should only be used with one provider, whereas your secondary tax card and your tax exemption card can be used by more than one provider at the same time.
See who uses your primary and secondary tax cards by
logging on to E-tax
(our self-service system) and clicking "Søg i indkomstoplysninger" (Search income information).
It could happen that your employer or whoever pays your salary, student grant or pension uses the wrong tax card.
If so, you have to ask your employer/provider to get the correct tax card digitally from us, as you can't do that yourself.
Tell your employer/provider which tax card to use - your primary or secondary tax card.
When your employer/provider has retrieved the new tax card, he/she can correct the details.
If you have paid too much tax, you will get a tax refund the following year.
If your employer/provider has problems getting your tax card, the he/she can contact us on (+45) 72 22 28 24.
Your tax card may change during the year if, for example, you adjust your preliminary income assessment (forskudsopgørelsen).
Adjustments could mean that your withholding rate changes, that you become entitled to new deductions or lose the right to one or more deductions. It could have an impact on how much of your salary your employer pays out to you and how much is withheld for tax.
Ultimately, the changes are important to ensure that you pay the correct amount of tax during the year and as a result avoid having to pay outstanding tax at the end of the year.
Your employer will automatically be notified if your withholding rate or deductions change.
Read more about changing your preliminary income assessment at
If your income changes.
If you are self-employed or work as a freelancer or if you are being paid for single jobs or assignments, it could be a concert, a talk or a course, your income is typically considered B-income (B-indkomst).
Generally, tax and labour market contributions (AM-bidrag) are not deducted on this type of income before you are paid, and as a result you have to make sure that you pay tax and labour market contributions on this income.
You need a preliminary income assessment (forskudsopgørelse) in which you state your expected income in order to pay tax on B-income.
So please read more about paying tax and labour market contribution on your B-income at
B-income - if you are self-employed or work as a freelancer
.
For further legal information in Danish see
our legal guide .
Apply for a tax card
Get a tax card as a non-Danish employee
Do you have any other questions to this subject?
Call us
before
Kl.
17:00
72222780