URL: https://skat.dk/en-us/individuals/shares-and-securities/tax-on-cryptocurrency-know-the-rules-and-avoid-a-tax-bill/if-you-move-to-or-from-denmark

Skat
Skat
Log on as an individual with MitID
Log on with E-tax password
Authorised logon (for parents or advisors, etc.)
Order E-tax password
Please note that the tax assessment notice (årsopgørelsen) and your contact and payment information is now available in English at skat.dk/tastselv
.
Log on with MitID
Log on with E-tax password (TastSelv-kode)
Search
What are you looking for?
Don't enter personal information (such as your CPR no.). We save searches for statistical purposes to improve our search feature.
Read aloud
English
Dansk
If you move to or from Denmark
If you move to Denmark
If you move to Denmark and become liable to pay tax to Denmark, you can request information about how your stock of cryptocurrencies will be considered for tax purposes. You do so by requesting a binding ruling from us, the Danish Tax Agency (Skattestyrelsen). This ruling is our decision on how you should handle your cryptocurrencies in relation to tax.
Read the decision in Danish on the valuation of cryptocurrency when you move to Denmark (SKM.2019.161.SR.)
.
Request a binding ruling
.
If you leave Denmark
If you leave Denmark and you do not have to pay tax to Denmark any longer, we will consider your stock of cryptocurrencies to be sold at market value on the day you left the country.
This means that if on the day you left Denmark the value exceeded the value at the time of purchase, you should enter the difference as profit in your tax assessment notice (årsopgørelse). If on the day you left Denmark the value was less than that at the time of purchase, the loss is tax-deductible.
Remember that when you trade in cryptocurrency, it is highly likely that you have had both gains and losses throughout the year. You have to calculate your gains and losses separately, and as a result you may generally not just set off the loss from one transaction against the profit from others.
Read more about how you calculate your profit and losses here
.
If you can’t correct your tax assessment notice or if you have any questions about taxation of cryptocurrencies, please contact us.
Read relevant decision (in Danish)
Valuation of cryptocurrency when you move to Denmark (SKM.2019.161.SR.)
.