URL: https://skat.dk/en-us/individuals/deductions-and-allowances/home-improvement-and-household-services/household-services

Skat
Skat
Log on as an individual with MitID
Log on with E-tax password
Authorised logon (for parents or advisors, etc.)
Order E-tax password
Please note that the tax assessment notice (årsopgørelsen) and your contact and payment information is now available in English at skat.dk/tastselv
.
Log on with MitID
Log on with E-tax password (TastSelv-kode)
Search
What are you looking for?
Don't enter personal information (such as your CPR no.). We save searches for statistical purposes to improve our search feature.
Read aloud
English
Dansk
Deutsch
Household services
The deduction for household services is DKK 17,500 per person in 2025 (DKK 11,900 in 2024). You can claim a deduction for wage costs, not materials.
You are entitled to claim a deduction for certain household services in your home or  holiday home.
The value of the deduction is approx. 26%. If you have paid DKK 1,000 for a home improvement service, you save approx. DKK 260 in taxes.
Claim your deduction for household services:
For 2024:
Log on to E-tax
and select
Change tax assessment notice/tax return
and claim your deduction in
box 461
For 2025:
Log on to E-tax
and select
Forskudsopgørelse (Preliminary income assessment)
, select
Håndværkerfradrag og Servicefradrag (Deduction for home improvement services and household services)
and claim your
deduction for household services in field 461
See video: How to claim a household service deduction in our preliminary income assessment
Deductible household services
Wash-down and wiping of surfaces in the home
Cleaning of toilet and bath/shower
Vacuum-cleaning, floor washing and floor polishing
Dishwashing, clothes washing and ironing
Cleaning or washing of carpets, curtains, blinds, etc.
Cleaning of windows - inside the building
Cleaning of windows - outside the building
Please note - expenses for washing, ironing and dry cleaning clothes and rugs etc. are only deductible when it is done in the home.
It is not possible to claim expenses for au pairs living in the home where the work is carried out.
Childminding in the home or holiday home (tutoring may not be the primary task)
Dropping off and picking up children from daycare institution, school, leisure activities
Lawn mowing
Hedge cutting
Weeding
Trimming of bushes and trees
Tree felling and removal of fallen trees
Snow removal, including salting
Cleaning slabs on your terrace, driveway etc. (
Cleaning of gutters
Landscape paving
Establishing new lawns
You are not entitled to a deduction for:
subscription services, including snow removal and gardening
The same applies if your holiday home has been rented out. Please read more about this under
Deduction for home improvement and household services in holiday homes
.
You are entitled to a deduction if your alamr was installed on 1 January 2025 or later.
As a result, you can't get a deduction in your tax assessment notice for 2024.
Cookers, ovens and microwave ovens
Fridges, freezers and dishwashers
Washing machines, tumble dryers and drying cabinets
Cooker hoods
You are entitled to a deduction if you had your appliances repaired from 1 January and onwards.This is why that you can't claim a deduction in your tax assessment notice for 2024.
The repair must be made in your home for you to claim the deduction.
General conditions for claiming a household deduction
You have to pay by dankort, MobilePay or onlinebanking, for example (no cash).
Keep your documentation for the work done.
Services carried out in 2024, the services must have been paid by no later than 28 February 2025. If they were paid later than that, you will obtain the deduction in the income year in which they were paid.
Read more about
the general terms for and payment of household services
.
Services carried out by private individuals
You may claim a deduction for household services such as cleaning and babysitting carried out by private individuals. They have to complete a service declaration or similar, be 18 years old by the end of the income year and be subject to full tax liability in Denmark.
Read more about sales of services entitling the buyer to a deduction for household services (private individuals)
For further legal information in Danish see
our legal guide .
Do you have any other questions about this subject?
Call us
before
Kl.
17:00
72222795
Read more
Selling services entitling the buyer to claim tax deduction (individuals)
Important to know when you hire help