URL: https://skat.dk/en-us/individuals

Skat
Skat
Log on as an individual with MitID
Log on with E-tax password
Authorised logon (for parents or advisors, etc.)
Order E-tax password
Please note that the tax assessment notice (årsopgørelsen) and your contact and payment information is now available in English at skat.dk/tastselv
.
Log on with MitID
Log on with E-tax password (TastSelv-kode)
Search
What are you looking for?
Don't enter personal information (such as your CPR no.). We save searches for statistical purposes to improve our search feature.
Read aloud
Genveje
Tax assessment notice 2024
Tax 2025: Preliminary income assessment
Get a tax card
Guide to E-tax
Your guide to working in Denmark
Calculate your pay
Your tax assessment notice is ready
You have until 1 May to check if it is correct.
You can still make changes to your tax assessment notice for 2024 in E-tax.
See your tax assessment notice
English
Dansk
Deutsch
Українська
Polski
Română
Lietuvių
Kalaallisut
Your Danish tax affairs
Taxation in Denmark
Setting up life, types of tax, tax liability, leaving Denmark, coming to study
Income, preliminary income assessment and tax assessment notice
Tax card, B-income, pension and early retirement, cross-border commuters
Deductions and allowances
You are entitled to deduct certain expenses
Property
Buying, selling or renting out a home or a holiday home
Debt
Do you have unpaid debt?
Payments to the Danish Tax Agency
See how to make a payment and who to contact
E-tax for individuals and powers of attorney
Guides to E-tax for individuals and powers of attorney in the Tax Agency
Shares and securities
Calculating gains and losses on shares
Employee benefits
Free food and accommodation, company car, fee phone, etc.
Gifts
See how much you may give tax-free
Pension and early retirement
About tax and deductions for contributions to pension schemes, early retirement, Danish pensions abroad, pensions from abroad etc.
When you are from Ukraine and get a job in Denmark
Information for Ukrainian citizens
B-income
If you are self-employed or work as a freelancer
Tax card
You need a tax card to work in Denmark
Sharing economy activities
When you trade, swop or rent out goods or services
Cross-border tax matters
Your tax when you have non-Danish income or you move
Motor vehicles
Registration offices, importing and exporting vehicles, plates, tax, etc.
Customs duties
When you buy goods outside Denmark