URL: https://skat.dk/en-us/individuals/pension-and-early-retirement/danish-pensions-if-you-move-abroad

Skat
Skat
Log on as an individual with MitID
Log on with E-tax password
Authorised logon (for parents or advisors, etc.)
Order E-tax password
Please note that the tax assessment notice (årsopgørelsen) and your contact and payment information is now available in English at skat.dk/tastselv
.
Log on with MitID
Log on with E-tax password (TastSelv-kode)
Search
What are you looking for?
Don't enter personal information (such as your CPR no.). We save searches for statistical purposes to improve our search feature.
Read aloud
English
Dansk
Deutsch
Danish pensions if you leave Denmark
You can apply for social pensions such as the state pension and early retirement pension even if you move to an EU country or a non-EU country. YOu can also apply for ATP Lifelong Pension but please note that this pension will not be paid until you hve reached the Danish state pension age.
You are subject to limited tax liability in Denmark on your pension payments. This means that you have to pay an average tax rate because you do not belong to a specific Danish municipality.
If you would like to bring your state pension or early retirement pension with you abroad (www.borger.dk - only in Danish)
You can take both your company and private pension schemes with you if you leave Denmark.
You can transfer pension payments to non-Danish pension schemes if the scheme has been approved and set up in another EU/EEA country. The Danish Tax Agency (Skattestyrelsen) approves the non-Danish scheme.
If there is a double taxation agreement
If you live outside Denmark and start receiving payments from an annuity pension or pension scheme providing a regular income, whether it is a private or company scheme, the double taxation agreement between Denmark and the relevant country will decide where you have to pay tax.
The general rule is that you pay tax on the payments under annuity pension schemes and pension schemes providing a regular income in your country of residence.
As a result, you may be tax exempt in Denmark under the double taxation agreement with the country you live in. If you're exempt from taxation on your pension, you must report the portion of your pension that is tax free to us annually. You do this by entering the amount in box 28 in your tax return every year. At the same time, you declare that you still meet the conditions and are entitled to the tax exemption.
Log on to E-tax and enter ’skattefritaget’ (tax-exempt pension) on your tax return, box 28
However, Denmark seeks to ensure that the country that has granted tax relief on the contributions to the pension schemes is also the country that has the right to tax the pension payments. Under the double taxation agreement, Denmark may therefore have the right to tax the payments from your pension scheme even though you live outside Denmark.
If there is no double taxation agreement
If there is no double taxation agreement between Denmark and the relevant country, Denmark taxes the payments.
If you terminate a capital pension, old-age insurance scheme, old-age savings scheme or supplementary lump sum pension, you must pay a charge in Denmark on the full amount paid for which you were granted relief/exemption.
See the list of countries that have entered into a double taxation agreement with  Denmark:
Danish double taxation agreements and international agreements (only in Danish)
You're not taxed on pension returns if you're not subject to full tax liability to Denmark or you live outside Denmark.
Complete form
07.058  - Application for exemption from withholding and payment of tax on returns of pension assets
You can't be tax exempt if you live in Greenland
If you live in Sweden and have a Danish pension scheme, you now have to pay Danish tax on your pension return.
You may be liable to pay supplementary tax on contributions if you leave Denmark and have had more than 20% of your pay paid into a company pension scheme providing a regular income or an annuity pension scheme during the 5 years (10 years for principal shareholders) immediately prior to moving abroad.
A new double taxation agreement between Denmark and France took effect from the 2024 income year. This may affect you if you get pension payments from a Danish pension scheme while living in France.
If you get private pension payments
The payments are taxable in France, but they may also be taxable in Denmark if you were granted deductions or tax exemption on the pension contributions in Denmark. If so, you may claim French tax paid in your Danish tax assessment notice in box 775. (In this context, deduction and tax exemption means that pension contributions will be deducted from your pay before you are taxed on your income.)
If you had no deductions or tax exemption on your pension contributions, you enter the pension amount for the year (before tax) in box 28 in your tax assessment notice.
In such case, you may have to apply for tax exemption in Denmark. You do so by completing and submitting
f
orm 01.016
. (Please note that the form is currently in Danish).
If you get social pension payments
This kind of pension is taxable in France but the pension may also be taxed in Denmark. You can state the tax paid in France in your Danish tax assessment notice in box 775. This way, the tax paid in France will be taken into consideration when we calculate your Danish tax.
If you get public pension (after having been emloyed in public office)
The payments are taxable in Denmark. If you also pay tax on these payments in France, you should contact the French tax authorities for assistance.
However, if you live in France and are a French citizen, only France may tax the pension. In this case, you may need to apply for a Danish tax exemption by submitting
form 01.016
. (Form currently in Danish.)
Please note
If you lived in France by 28 November 2007 and got pension payments from Denmark by 31 January 2008, you may be covered by transitional rules. If so, the rules remain unchanged under the new double taxation agreement, meaning your pension remains tax-free in Denmark. You must still report the pension in box 28 in your tax assessment notice.
If you lived in Spain before 28 November 2007, you will in most cases still be covered by the terminated double taxation agreement.
For further legal information in Danish see
our legal guide .
Do you have any other questions about this subject?
Call us
before
Kl.
17:00
72222780