URL: https://skat.dk/en-us/individuals/deductions-and-allowances/home-improvement-and-household-services/deduction-for-home-improvement-services-and-household-services-for-tenants-cooperative-homeowners-and-apartment-owners

Skat
Skat
Log on as an individual with MitID
Log on with E-tax password
Authorised logon (for parents or advisors, etc.)
Order E-tax password
Please note that the tax assessment notice (årsopgørelsen) and your contact and payment information is now available in English at skat.dk/tastselv
.
Log on with MitID
Log on with E-tax password (TastSelv-kode)
Search
What are you looking for?
Don't enter personal information (such as your CPR no.). We save searches for statistical purposes to improve our search feature.
Read aloud
English
Dansk
Deutsch
Deduction for home improvement services and household services for tenants, cooperative homeowners and apartment owners
You are entitled to a tax deduction for home improvement services and household services regardless of whether you own or rent your home. However, there are three conditions:
You have to pay for the services yourself.
You must have the right to maintain the property (i.e. carry out maintenance).
You have to live in the property while the work is carried out.
The services must be included in
the list of approved home improvement services or household services
.
In order to claim the tax deduction, you must pay for the work yourself. In other words, you cannot get a tax deduction for expenses paid through your rent, a maintenance account or provisions made by your housing association.
As a tenant, you are entitled to a deduction for renovation work you were under an obligation to have done if you lived in the property while the work was carried out. The work must be included in the list of approved home improvement services and household services.
This also applies if the expenses were deducted from your deposit. You must be able to document the work and payment from the landlord and that the expenses were deducted from your deposit.
You are only entitled to a tax deduction for home improvement services and household services for maintenance work carried out in the indoor or outdoor areas of the property which you have the right to dispose of.
If you are a tenant, this will appear from your tenancy agreement. If you are a cooperative homeowner or an apartment owner, this will appear from the articles of association of the property.
As a tenant, you are entitled to a tax deduction for home improvement services and household services for improvements made within your right of disposal or as agreed in writing with your landlord.
As an owner or cooperative owner, you are entitled to a tax deduction for home improvement services and household services for maintenance work and improvements made according to your individual right of disposal.
You are not entitled to a deduction if, according to the articles of association, the right to dispose of the work belongs to the board of the cooperative housing association or owners’ association, or if the articles say that a certain savings account or basic capital must be used to cover the expense.
You are only entitled to a tax deduction for home improvement services and household services for maintenance work carried out while you lived in the property. It is not important when you sold or gave notice on your apartment.
For further legal information in Danish see
our legal guide .
Do you have any other questions to this subject?
Call us
before
Kl.
17:00
72222780